hello everyone and welcome back yet again to another week here on the gsmc fantasy sport podcast brought to you a always by the gsmc sport network .
i am your host a always christopher shepard .
thank you all for tuning in yet again and to kick off the week we shall have a great show ahead of a great slate of segment for you starting off today .
talking some monday night football an interesting game between the giant and the steelers will take place tonight and ive got you all covered from a betting perspective there .
then a always we look to our nfl and college football .
fantasy start the weekend the guy who impressed me the most over this past week .
i begin at my positional ranking with my qb pick for week nine of the nfl season and conclude today show with my favorite segment my ever popular segment my bold fantasy prediction or my do not be surprised if you will segment .
if you want to interact with show such a my show or others around the network a more directly consider making yourselves available to the super chat super thing and super sticker feature here on youtube .
you can do one of two thing to interact with u here on youtube .
you can press that dollar sign in your comment section leave a tip or donation or leave any burning question comment or concern you may have surrounding my show .
you can do it for other podcasts a and it is greatly appreciated because we know that our show is going to make our show that much more better .
but without further ado let u jump into our first segment of the day and let u talk some monday night football .
there we go we might have to fix these little subtitle here a we go along but that is my mistake and we will have to go head on .
but looking at this game especially from a betting perspective i feel it wa made more clear what with the steelers honing in on starting russell wilson .
i feel if justin field were the starter for this game there may have been more question mark surrounding how this game would play out for pittsburgh but now i feel more confident that pittsburgh will be the winner of this game .
the giant now on the other hand are an offense who are not looking that much appealing to nfl audience .
i still think that if you are the giant you are not necessarily going to be in many more game such a this or have opportunity against many more team if this is what your offense looked .
however i feel this game is going to be won or lost by both team for that matter on the defensive side of the football .
i feel the steelers defense is one that now should still be an elite almost top five to ten unit but feel more middling in almost every statistical metric than in past year .
i feel a large part of the giant success at least in the offensive end of thing will have to stem from the run game and not for nothing i do certain element of the giant run game .
youngcath bossesports podcast and this week we are i think getting back in somewhat of a rhythm .
we are changing it up in one way .
we are doing a live stream but we are going to try and touch on all three sport .
i think nothing is off limit dad .
well try and give it a much structure a we can especially going forward .
jumping into this new format will probably make some change and itll seem a little weird but a we go forward itll become more and more structure .
how do this working out going forward ?
now that the patriot have showed u they do not deserve a much time a we were given them .
yeah we are going to go with something similar to what we used to do which is a show once a week where we touch on all the team except we are going to be live people can chime in comment question and .
but today we are probably not going to touch on the patriot unless people insist on it .
id to focus on the bruin and celtic .
we gave them way too much love yesterday .
we are not going to be doing a patriot pregame postgame show anymore .
we are going to try to stick with monday night touching on all three team and best of given the celtic the love they deserve because they are the reigning champ and they are amazing .
and then you get the bruin who off to a rough start but they are still loaded and they are still definitely good enough to win a championship .
and they did everything they can to load up and win a championship .
and we to focus on team in boston that go for championship .
and now the celtic and bruin are the only one the red sox patriot are not exactly swinging for the fence .
they are building for the future .
all do we start with the bruin ?
yeah let talk about the bruin because we are going to probably have to spend most of this later part in the celtic because again it is semi pregame ?
let talk about the bruin ?
matt pacha got an assist last night .
he moving up a little bit in the lineup playing a bit of second line minute which we are super excited about .
my buddy andrew bailey he talked about martian being a bit lackluster .
and then a few minute later martian seal overtime for him .
that wa a bit of a nice surprise seeing martian get on the scoreboard for a few game .
dad this is almost repeat last year .
and quickly ill touch on .
i wa beyond happy at school today .
i put the bruin flag up on my chalkboard .
yeah and you are in toronto i am pretty sure .
id imagine that wa a lot of drama .
if you couldnt escape the wound a a least saying you walked into the first game a a self against the bruin you are losing overtime again you lost in overtime in game seven .
it is fresh wound .
there were many salty leaf fan .
i got to break through one of these day telling you .
every year the bruin hope to play leaf in the playoff .
what are these day they are going to break through ?
they are too talented .
hopefully it doesnt happen anytime soon .
but the bruin not to start a vision thats for sure .
and i hate to say it but montgomery i feel ha to go .
it is not working with him .
and i would a coach to come in that ha some influence is not afraid to push back against nearly against sweeney .
id an offensive guy he can look at these player in practice and go there not enough here offensively .
i need some offensive talent because that is their biggest problem .
i cried about this all last year before the playoff .
the old bull wa .
what ultimately doomed the bruin in the playoff wa their offense .
it wasnt their goal ten .
it wasnt their defense .
both of those were excellent .
i need an offensive guy to come in here and shake thing up saying no no no this dude is not a second line player .
he going down there .
who do you got for prospect ?
give me the slice all kid .
potra is way more talented than coyle offensively .
let move him up because it is not working .
this offense is bogged down .
the defense ha been pretty bad .
the goal ten ha been shaky .
i am not worried about those though .
they are too talented in those two department .
by the end of the year i feel those will be locked up and perfectly fine .
but again we need to see more offense .
this team ha showed nothing yet to show that even though they added lin holm they are not quite there yet .
yeah and i completely agree .
i think one of the biggest telling and funny situation i saw with how bad our offense ha been is i wa looking at the box score or the game from the nhl coming up .
and they have the star to watch for all the game .
and you saw evangie malke and you saw connor mcdavey you saw mckinnon on there the forrest bird kid from nashville .
can you guess dad who the star to watch wa for the boston bruin ?
not against the leaf but the game before that .
i think it wa against nashville .
it wa it wa koki or whatever his name is our fourth line player because thats what espns ai is telling them is our standout guy .
it is rough out there for a bruin fan when it come to trying to my buddy andrew and autumn they are huge bruin fan .
and i wa you do not have to watch the bruin unless the fourth line is out there because thats where all the spark come from it seems .
jeff i know and i agree with the old bull i will say though the bruin dominated the first and third period on saturday against that leaf team .
and that maybe thats a spark game .
thats a huge grudge match .
you got to get up got to get up against the leaf .
it is good to see the team show up and win it .
we had to go to overtime .
i wa hoping we could have closed it out .
but that might be a turning point win dad .
how do you feel about the win overall against the leaf at least that one game in a microcosm ?
if it delay montgomery getting fired i am not crazy about it .
but a lot of that the last two year thats plagued the bruin having a lead two minute left in the game and then they choke it away .
again could use the coach and change there .
montgomery ha been the coach for the last two year and thats been the biggest bruin problem besides the offense which is giving up lead in the last couple minute of game and period .
and here it go rear and it ugly head again .
toronto good .
they are super offensive .
they are super talented .
but thats no excuse man .
it is supposed to be hard to score a goal on you even if they have pulled the goalie knowing thats all they are trying to do .
and you are setting up a barricade in front of the goal your own goal tender .
it is supposed to be hard .
and the bruin have an uncanny knack for giving up goal in that situation .
it is terrible .
we need a fresh start i feel .
man the old goal is calling for a lot a lot of resume to be submitted in new england .
thats mayo you won out and that is montgomery .
dad one year ago could you believe that would be what you and i both agree on that joe missoula is by far and away the best coach in new england ?
and i think it is not even a competition at this point .
joe is the man .
and my dad and i were ripping on joe last year .
we had a bunch of problem but now it is monty and it is definitely mayo on the chopping block .
and i completely agree .
monty he wa supposed to come in be a young player coach helped develop those guy .
i think petes the one who pointed that out .
and monty ha not provided that for the bruin at all .
lysos still down in providence .
and pochera is deaf .
i appreciate pochera being up but it took him long enough to move him up in line .
and pochera still get frozen out some game and ha low minute compared to others .
i am not ... and he play with stiff .
and he play with stiff winger winger are no good .
i am sick of seeing pochera with these winger that are not talented .
when he still rotating lowrye in what the hell are you doing ?
stop with that .
he is not your sixth or seventh best defenseman .
lowrye is way better than that .
they are young player .
they are going to make mistake .
stop benching them the next game .
let them get their damn confidence .
it is ... i do not want you turning them into defensive robot who do nothing but back check and worry about their own end .
let them take chance .
let lowrye take a chance here and there .
let pochers feel he can make offensive play .
and if he doesnt get back and defend his own one hundred of the time i am going to be benched the next game .
stop with that crap .
they are not going to learn these young kid .
it is infuriating .
and theyve been doing this even before montgomery going way back to claude gillian .
jeff i know i think thats the perfect segue into swamin. ?
if you are paying eight million for that guy on the back end youve got to be able to take a chance here and there .
and swamin ha to make up for those gap and those risk .
and hopefully it pay off in some actual goal .
how do you feel about swamin far dad with this contract ?
do you think he put his money where his mouth is ?
i know it is only a few game into the season .
jeff unknown here .
he definitely earning that big contract .
most of the time he is not all the time though .
you can tell he did not have a training camp .
that is shown because there some goal sometimes you are wow swamin thats goal is not you .
but he still make ten bell save here and there .
he not at the level he wa .
it is though .
he ha all season to get there not worried about swamin .
we saw what he doe in the biggest moment on the biggest stage in the stanley cup last year .
singlehandedly almost took florida panther to game seven the best team in the world .
he almost did that .
and thats a good question jeff .
i am talking to my butt saying replace montgomery because i do not have a replacement .
all i know is i would an offensive guy brought in here what i wanted with the patriot .
get me i am not worried about the defense .
their defense is loaded with talent .
they will figure it out by the end of the year .
they are going to be awesome defensively when the playoff come around .
i have no doubt about that .
swamin is going to be awesome .
fix the offense .
when your second line ha two goal between coyle and martian in the last thirtysomething game that is terrible .
that is broken .
you can not have that .
i know martian is old and he a step slower than he used to be but he not that bad .
he not that bad where he should have two damn goal in his last thirty freaking game or something .
three goal whatever it is .
yeah with martian it is tough ?
because weve heard a lot of rumbling about him with geeky being a bit of a diva with who he play in his line with .
how much of this is you mentioned martian good but how much of it is this a mental thing with martian trying to shoehorn matchup and everything into his game ?
and it is obviously not working .
i am wondering if he the captain he should not be doing that .
you are the captain .
you are supposed to be another coach out there .
you are supposed to be in line with your coach your head coach .
and he should not be doing that .
he should be being that drummer whatever coach say i am going to play with .
ive read at least two report of martian wanting doe not want to play with the young guy that much .
i do not know if thats why maybe monty took some time to get pautra into that second line because martian wanted his guy and then finally they moved pautra up .
it is tough because not a lot of stuff come out .
a lot of the hockey guy are very very beatty .
the spit and chiclet guy suck .
i feel the hockey coverage is almost worse than any sport when it come to these guy making these claim they are true .
but if martian is forcing his guy in there and not letting the coach make the decision then i think martian a big problem .
and i brought that up before the season started .
i am wondering how much martian going to have a negative effect on the season .
a he get older it feel he doing the opposite of the chara .
it seems i do not know .
i havent seen too much grace with this .
thats whats frustrating for me .
but martian should be on a line with pautras and lysol .
those are the three most talented guy after the top three after linhom pasta and zaka .
those are the next three guy .
put them together and see if you freaking got something .
it is ridiculous .
but anyway thats our fifteen minute for them .
let jump over to the celtic .
and i will say one thing quick about the bruin .
my dad one of my dad my dad had a very creative i think ten regarding the goal .
yeah in a minute against the goal he go against .
and thats not going too .
the other thing my dad said wa that they were going to fall for the protection line again which would be linhom martian and pasha .
and thats been making an appearance in those game .
thats scary in that regard ?
moving on to the any comment on that before we move on to the celtic ?
no we have all the added touch on it but i am not roaring about the bruin unless some change do not come at some point we beat our head against the same wall .
but anyway all celtic every night that they are on is an absolute pleasure .
the biggest problem i have with this team is that they do not play every day .
and i wish they did because i absolutely loved watching them .
they are an absolute pleasure .
and man big game tonight against the milwaukee buck .
i do not know if i could check this without killing the stream but i am curious if yanis is in tonight .
do that ?
do that off top of your head if he playing real quick a you are looking at that ?
jeff i know and i am predicting an exciting celtic win tonight .
i do not think it will be a blowout .
i think the buck will make u earn it .
jeff do they are on the second night of an away back to back ?
they had lost i think they played in brooklyn lost to brooklyn and now they are coming out to play against u and we are arrested .
this is a very similar thing that my dad and i cried about .
we cried a lot because they did this to u and the other side of it where we had a big tight game .
i think it wa minnesota when it is overtime .
in the next game we had to play facing milwaukee and away and away back to back .
joe missoula pretty much benched his guy for the entire second half .
thats why i think this game might be a blowout for that exact reason .
yeah it is very simple .
the buck are getting screwed tonight .
thats all there is to it .
buck are getting screwed one hundred .
we cried about this last year .
we want to see good prime time game .
i want to see the celtic get tested .
when tonight end up in a blowout which it is probably going to the celtic had their little trapped game against detroit the other day .
they almost lost that one .
probably looking ahead to milwaukee but here come milwaukee .
playing a game last night traveling not far traveling do not get me wrong but it is still traveling .
they are on the night of back to back .
here we go again .
it is the nba being stupid .
you have a premium matchup this .
why is it hard to make sure both team have the day off before ?
matt what did you think of that detroit game the other day ?
yeah the detroit game wa tough because we were still shooting .
they were still shooting .
i do not know if it is something where we werent running a lot of set and they were letting the guy play out there and joe wasnt getting too involved .
i do not know if that wa a chess match to not show too much but this go back to the parody in the nba .
i feel the nba is the best league now to watch in the world when it come to the amount of skill .
no matter where the sucky team are they put on the court .
and jaden ivy same thing .
these guy are athletic .
they are out there .
they are running fast .
they probably were thinking of milwaukee .
everyone thought that game wa going to be over very quickly .
i think the best part of that game is that it showed that a lot of the issue that we hoped were gone at the end of last year which seemed to be gone are carrying over into this year .
they flipped the switch .
are they a team that can flip the switch ?
they flipped the switch at the end .
tatum i think scored eight or ten of the last eighteen point for the celtic .
and they said what tired of messing around and came through .
it wa a weird game .
it sucked that we even let them get close but it is almost a good thing to see them deal with adversity and come back and end up winning that game .
sean raff .
good to chime in in there .
a little hit of symbol .
the game the other night and this ha been a concern of mine .
i havent brought up because they hadnt given u a reason to yet .
the first two game the starter did not play the fourth quarter ?
and thats amazing .
we love that a fan especially the old bull and young cap .
we preach load management all the time and it worked last year .
that team went in and rested .
they blew everyone out .
never won past five game .
thats what we want .
my concern is there still nba player .
they still their number ?
and i can not help but wonder did they take a little bit off the gas when it come to defense to keep these game a little closer to make sure they get some fourth quarter minute to help there ?
because none of them are going to get their point per game rebounding if they only play three quarter .
thats natural .
thats not going to happen .
are they maybe giving only ninety on defense ?
subliminally knowing that the play to fourth quarter keep this game a little closer than i am not necessarily saying they are saying that in their head but if we are being honest i do not know .
do they and i felt the other night wa that celtic scored seventy point in the first half seventy something .
and then over the next quarter and a half they scored twenty .
and then you said matt they flipped the switch and they woke up .
but it is what happened during that almost quarter and a half ?
i felt they got away from what they normally do trying to turn off the defense a little bit .
and i do not know they got their fourth quarter minute and point the other night but i am interested to see if there more evidence of that .
i think you can not discount psycho joe ?
there a good chance that this ive good chance .
this is a a wet football situation with bill belichick where joe treated that game practice .
there were a few time when the piston were going on run in that fourth quarter or a third quarter where i wa he going to call a timeout and they look to the bench and joes nope figure it out .
i would not be shocked at if joe treated that game a practice a simulation ?
what if i had no timeouts and this wa the playoff figure it out .
and what a better opportunity than against the detroit piston team that it doesnt matter .
you said when they are playing the long game they got to taste the championship .
i to take and joe if anything he like to emulate successful coach .
and thats something a successful coach would do .
this is a learning opportunity for that team .
and i know he love it .
wow thats interesting .
old bull is jeff jeff unknown .
i would never say such a thing .
i am hoping they are not doing that but it is possible .
if i think i wa a player id be happy with the fourth quarter rest .
he star that .
they are number .
jeff you never know .
and i your take two matt .
i thats it .
maybe maybe missoula did manipulate that to keep it close in some way .
and because they had not been challenged at first two game thats for sure .
they were practice those first two game .
it wa nothing there .
i wouldnt put it past cycle joe .
you never know .
we got to get jeff unknown back on the show for a guest appearance .
did we do that once ?
and we are good .
we are going to it is a matter of not making a janky .
my dad mentioned that the start of the last the pope the post game my life is upside down now .
now that ive moved a you can see i am making dinner for my kid a i am trying to do this thing .
joe jeff once we can get a little bit better structure around this thing we are definitely going to have you on especially talk about all this stuff .
and i think is whats today the sport sport equinox this is the one of one of the day of a year where we have every single sport at the same time or something that .
no that would be tomorrow i believe tomorrow would be thursday .
there no nfl .
wait wait wait no what is today ?
there is .
yeah everythings going on today .
it is exciting stuff .
i am happy to talk about a lot of this stuff .
it is it is it is funny because i do not want the dodger or the yankee to what i know we are not going to talk about baseball but a lot of talk about in our world now .
yep i love that .
had a lot of fun .
very honored .
and we were honored to have you jeff unknown .
we are honored to talk to you every time and super thankful for you taking time out of your day .
we will we will definitely get you on maybe next monday jeff if you are available .
dad you shouldnt have called me to ask if i wa available .
you should have called jeff to figure out what these he he available because i know pretty much ?
but i want to i want to itch another scratch that i can not stand again .
the first three game tatum get player of the week .
thank you nba for recognizing him but you turn on first take get up the colin cowichan .
nothing nothing on the celtic picking up where they left off tatum .
there wa a little bit when they destroyed the knicks on that open and night but man nothing since then .
and it is probably not going to be anything because now now the narrative is yeah the celtic they are loaded to well see them in the playoff well see if they stay healthy and no one want to talk about them .
it is but well talk about a guy who ha no business being in the nba he only there because it wa father .
and well talk about that .
we are going to keep talking about the lake is thats annoying .
the lakers are off to this start this three and start because a bronze playing heavy minute and it is have fun now guy .
lake is they are playing they are doing what the bruin do .
they are treating regular season game playoff game .
thats what the lakers are doing now .
hey what probably be a top three seed you keep that up all year and guess who going to have no gas in a tank when the playoff roll around ?
and ad ad is getting up there too now .
probably time is undefeated .
that is for sure .
and the bronze going to it is going to catch up to him .
it is got to be this year ?
no absolutely .
and another thing is being the best player on the team with the best record in the nba is no longer what it used to be .
that used to be the first guy who would get all the attention .
no this guy the best player on the best team .
he get who can catch him for the mvp ?
thats usually what it is .
those day are over now .
it is about flash .
it is about number .
he he putting up more assist .
thats thatll help .
he always a high rebound guy anyway high point guy .
the assist will help be a more of a defensive impact player he ha been will help .
but ultimately when you are sitting half your fourth quarter you are not going to get mvp because it is number based unfortunately .
and i think this go all the way back to bill russell .
i saw this picture of the mvp race in one year when it wa when it wa bill russell will chamberlain oscar robinson ?
and bill russell won the mvp and he averaged twenty three rebound per game sixteen point and many block .
then you got and he wa at forty six minute a game .
then you had will chamberlain averaging fifty point a game thirty rebound and forty eight minute more than forty eight minute .
and bill russell won because bill russell wa the best player on the best team he wa the most valuable piece on the most valuable team in the league .
and again that you said it is about click nowadays .
and even though we are in the biggest market in all of sport it is still not enough because la is driving it .
and man there wa the nba league pas i saw this other thing .
they had a game update and an article on every single game that happened on saturday but they did not have the celtic .
the first game wa the lakers and sacramento .
after that they had every other game but they did not even they did not even make a poster a comment about the celtic piston .
it is born now .
the celtic are the best and they are the ball .
and dad would you would you have it any other way ?
whats up jason ?
whats up man ?
jonathan whats up ?
whats up lap ?
yeah jonathan my bad jonathan .
hey i am yeah jonathan .
one of my old favorite from the jail .
absolutely awesome guy many of those guy up there .
i always appreciate you jumping in there john .
and yeah we got a good one tonight hopefully .
look giannis is playing .
he only went out a crusty old man middleton .
street clothes middleton .
well see if the box have anything left in a tank after playing last night .
hopefully he get back in this week .
that should have been his first .
he got robbed of his first win .
that would have been a blowout yesterday .
he wa already carving up the jet .
thats a shame .
that game definitely not that close that drake may play the whole thing .
thats the damn sure .
and i think drake may commented he posted the instagram how about the boy or how about my fella or whatever .
drake may nice little leadership nod there not being sour graf about getting taken out of the game .
and i think john drake may is one hundred legit .
he put up dan reno number in those first two game .
i know i have said it six time in this podcast .
i am going to keep saying it because it wa joy to watch especially after what weve done been dealing with .
i am hoping his head injury is not a bad a it seems .
my dad sent me an article today .
mayo had some comment on it which i am not one hundred sure how much i mayo talking nowadays because it seems he give a lot of bad information and it is no information is better than bad information jirad .
you are not being forced to say anything .
you do not have to be weird but it seems he can not help himself .
hopefully we hear from mayo .
if mayo is telling the truth it is good news .
it is because on the post game i said this is my hope is the nfl saw it .
and because of all the heat they took from tua the nfl is no no no get him in the blue tent .
and what my hope wa i am fine .
he trying everything he can to get back up .
there guy we are fine i am fine i am fine but the concussion protocol people would not pas them .
and thats what i am hoping happened .
and thats what jirad mayo said happened .
if you go back and read the press conference today .
hopefully he telling the truth on this one .
matt say he like to give out a lot of false info .
lead the meter on or contradicts himself later on .
hopefully thats the case .
and hopefully we see him back on the field this week for for another game where he develops and get more growth .
yeah but yeah thats it for the show .
we get the game coming on .
yo bull is going to take off .
i got thing i get to all go south and some thank you everyone for tuning in .
please subscribe to our youtube channel and we will see you next monday .
well let what time .
all school wa good peasant .
we are here .
i know every all you guy were ancient for this live stream ceo curse out the peasant for both .
listen those the vast majority peasant in the comment section can not say anything the only one that can say something it is probably jordan and the random editor apart from them who else in the comment section ha the audacity to say anything with their garbage team ?
some cheese to beat the raider ?
yeah obviously i last time i checked wa twenty seven to twenty .
all back to back loss each shit .
they are not that good all and by the way they are good they have no quarterback yeah that sum it up it is what is this thursday football give a shit packer beat jacksonville thirty to twenty seven .
unfortunately my boy jordan love got injured with a groin injury yeah packer good team without jordan love stole a good team but honestly bro they can still win with willis .
i am keeping honest with you .
i do not know lion next week no no not against the line again fuck if they do not have love but this is in my opinion it is the second best team behind the line .
i am very strong line believer a i that .
i the path .
by the way because i am a lion believer doesnt mean i do not think the packer are good i think they are great .
i think they are a little bit young on season and this jordan love how long doe it groin last doe anyone know ?
i can not we can not calm injury prone .
it is his first year but it is i do not the fact that not because he not bad .
it is that he not good it is that i do not he getting it every time he get into a rhythm he get injured and that that thatll fuck up your yeah fuck up the exactly listen packer are a good team coach .
it is awesome coach wish i had a coach that awesome coach jaguar bro fucking trash bro .
but by the way brian i will say this brian .
i love brian thomas jr. is great no he not no he not better than malik but he he he i guess you could say he playing better than marvin but he top three .
he top three for sure .
he top three ill say he playing better than roman doomsday .
ill say that i wa definitely i do not know what the hell going on there i do not think any of u were high on room yeah falcon beat the buck thirty one twenty six .
i am honestly shocked by this .
i am shocked shout the baker for cooking you feel me without mike evans or chris .
he still cooked up .
ill see all your thought here the thing with baker bro and we played and we did not talk about the buck and raven because it wa monday night game it but here the thing .
this is what i could say about baker too many interception turn to that he good .
it wa three pick you can not play that .
they are not doing anything with who our top receiver now without them it is it is you take away t higgins and jamar chaser the what is broke all ?
we are gon na get to that .
yeah we are gon na get that but imagine if he did not have those people you can not ask baker to the throat of fucking trey tucker or some shit that .
fuck that is josh palmer some shit .
i know shout out to baker but the they got much ever i forgot about that watch those do not shepherd but you can agree though .
they are season old effect .
yeah i think evans out for a lot of week yeah they are season about done .
guy you have to understand something this is baltimore .
all we do not have bad defense in baltimore .
they doesnt exist the fact that i am witnessing hot garbage for the first time in my life is something i have never ever witnessed listen wa this game wasnt good for either side of the ball rashad bait me .
yeah yeah yeah when he threw it to our db you saw i am you do not watch the game ?
no i couldnt i only watched the last quarter .
all . . you watch the last quarter ?
did kyle hamilton drop that pig bro ?
if he caught that pig what would happen ?
i do not think ive ever seen this in baltimore .
no me comparing lamar jackson the pay manning wa a very insult to a lot of lamar jackson fan in my comment section that wa a comp .
i have a very nice video coming out about the ?
that wa a compliment bro you are gon na see in my video tomorrow i do not know if it is they were lamar fan who who said they were pissed off that wa comparing him to a pay manning i do not know .
i do not know why if we are listen a now a a now first of all it is not paint a lot of people can consider pay manning a top three quarterback of all time i do not get it .
is what it is line blow out the tie into who shocked ?
the line it is not it is not listen .
it is only impressive because they scored fifty .
thats about it the point no one care about the titan .
they are fucking garbage but i will say this the line offensive play calling in term of having fuck the offensive trickery that they do you have linemen throwing touchdown it is it is weird .
i said this team will take a step back and we can see ceo this is not the same team from last year cj stroud is not playing at an mvp level and ever since nikols went down cjs admit but let be for yeah .
thats a fact it is a fact texan are a good team but i do not see them doing anything in the playoff i want to see no they are probably gon na get bounced by baltimore .
yeah and listen i am gon na say this apart from stroud looking mid cuz he ever since nico went down .
he is looking better thats not a good sign by the way .
and by the way he ha dig and ting dell out there but do not show up there too a . no no yeah i agree with you but he doe it is not he ha lack of weapon ?
he ha weapon up and and we seen quarterback before because cjs always up there and the top five for a lot of people you seen lamar you seen alan people work without without people dig my home last use yeah my home .
yeah my home ha i can not say joshs yet how we still put up number today without evans and chris yeah listen i am not we are not saying he bad trash .
i do not want people to think that but i think this is why we say pump the brake a little bit when it came to his rookie year we said that a far a the colt brought anthony richardson look fucking trash .
yeah this dude is bad super bad it is not even it is not even i am cold bro .
why the fuck did you take him ?
he could have been something good if he wouldnt went to a team and sat but instead the colt had a fucking take him and anything the colt take that the fucking room .
ill i pay an angel luck is what is there ? ?
yes ceo philadelphia thirty seven bingle seventeen .
man this is a good sunday .
yeah very good fucking sunday and i have and i have a video about the bingle i am gon na let ceo take a ceo need to be in cheerful spirit i am gon na let him take a dump all over the bingle .
ill say this feeling impressive win and i think me and ceo both picked the bingle but going second role game thats another blowout impressive win but ceo can this finally confirm joe borough is not a top five quarterback he not you you got to take him out .
see you you have to let see against and your march ace i wa rooting for the eagle obviously because they are playing a division rival yeah but i what i want to say this it is a lot of people ?
they are not a good team this is why i do not want people to think my god joe bro joe borough slurping and weve said it or yeah i had them finishing in the beginning in our prediction ?
he he he alex smith with good weapon thats exactly who he is joe borough and i know all the people that love joe borough and this and that and still put them above people lamar or allen .
you are stupid if you still think that bro i am not saying i still think bro is a topten quarterback .
he had a he he an elite he an elite midperson late he top out at the mid bar ?
he not he borderline good if that make sense ?
yeah i agree thats where he is you can win with him but you are not going to he not in it he not a generational town .
thats what i want to say .
he not a generational town .
listen bengal i am happy that you are miserable .
i am happy that your season effectively .
it is not over not sensibly speaking but i would love it to be over if we want if we want it would have been over but listen bangle all the cincinnati fan that come in the comment section talking shit go fuck yourself .
i got some free out wednesday .
yeah you go fuck by the way bengal fan enjoy this because t higgins is out this is what joe burrow and what your team is gon na look when you have to march yeah you are done .
they are done bro .
i think you are hot shit .
i do not care about all you eagle fan out here trying to hype up shit this is what eagle fan do bro .
if you if you lost this game you would have been ready to end it all i know your fan base very fucking .
when it come to the eagle you are gon na make the playoff but you are not contender .
you are not going to super bowl get that shit out of your mind you are not it is over .
you are not making the super bowl this year i do not think anyone apart taking out eagle fan ?
think that these nick sirianni lead team is gon na do shit in the fucking playoff and get deep in i do not think .
i do not see it filly no silly .
i am gon na leave you out alone shout to yall for being the bengal i think i hate the bengal more .
i hate philly to be honest with you .
we do not hate philly .
it is i am being honest i do not i do not have anything with philly because we are not even the same conference .
you used to be a giant fan we are not even in the same conference .
yeah but my thing is i am not delusional in term of i try to put my fandom aside when it come to analyzing sport ?
yeah in my in my discord profile .
what is my profile ?
hashtag fire harbore and or did that change during the duration of the win for the five game win streak ?
absolutely not me there for me .
no i am very consistent when i see bullshit when i see fuckery at the coaching position and i see fuckery at the eagle coaching position do i think that hurt is a is a bum ?
no i do not think he a bum but i want to see him without serrani i think serrani is still a bum .
yeah i will agree with that because at least what her see there not denying .
they the player came out and said it the serrani came out and said it jalen hurt is the leader in that locker room clearly the player him serrani need to go .
i saw wa that whole coach that they need to go it is what is there ?
it is speaking of go jet i do not know what the fuck going on here bro yall lost to the fucking drake may and jacobi brisette yeah blow it up blow it the fuck up devon bro i am sorry .
why the fuck would you go to the jet ?
yeah ive been said he dumb .
you should have went to bro he could have listened .
i do not know listen .
first of all he doesnt want to win .
thats plainly obvious .
he want to hang out with his buddy yeah listen if i am a jet fan which thank god i am not if i wa a jet fan i am what ?
i want to blow the shit up this is unacceptable .
by the way .
good job firing robert solid .
he wa he wa definitely the issue there he wa the problem .
he wa the problem no listen .
listen the whole organization is trash .
woody johnson a horrible owner what ?
rj because woody johnson jerry jones and that he get and he decides the deal .
he doe the trade and all that shit .
i am not sure if you are aware of that i did not know that he he he not a famous a jerry ?
he doesnt get the the press and the medium attention that jerry doe but he doe that .
this is why they are trash woody johnson is garbage erin rogers is fucking mid at this point .
he not good enough to overcome a bad organization rogers is in if you if i put kirk cousin here they would equally be a shitty yeah it is one of those situation where rogers need a good organization because he he himself is rogers is not a leader .
he a dickheaded for being honest and he not good enough .
this is not primary rogers .
and by the way i the fact that you lost to the patriot that that is that is listen it is a divisional game ?
he can be a bad head coach but he know how to coach his as off on defense yes and i know this ha nothing to do with the game and for some reason 49ers fan do not want robber solid back .
i do not know why have you seen your defense ?
are they still losing to that ?
yeah it is ten to six .
it is still the cowboy and that but still it is what it is patrots this doe nothing for you either way .
i am assuming because they put jacobre set out there listen yeah yeah yeah what happened to drake made did he get injured or did he say i am assuming because jacobre set wa out there i do not see i wa barely paying attention to this game .
i wa doing anything besides watching this game i had on my tv i wa probably laying down taking a nap why the fuck why i care about a jet or a patriot game ?
it is what it is fuck both these team carnals and dolphin now carnals upset the dolphin twenty eight to twenty seven very exciting game .
see all your thought all i wa rooting for the the carnals and i think i had them on the upset the week prior listen i what they are doing .
i the i what they are doing in arizona they are overachieving yeah are they gon na do anything ?
no no hell no but it is a nice story ?
it is it is nice to see kyler murray who who unfortunately been dealt to a shit organization looked somewhat decent i said rj if he want to a good organization .
i think hed be a lot better listen joe miami yo this fraud mcdaniels bad .
get this bum off the team .
maybe not waddle because waddle is young yeah i am jail and ramsey .
i am moving him in a heartbeat .
jalens got ta go shubs going where he most of the going rolling .
yeah everythings for sale and if you want waddle you are willing to give me two first and we can probably talk about that everything is up for sale .
i am blowing this shit wide the fuck open and i am getting me listen i am not a big fan .
i am not the biggest fan of of shadore but they probably could be in a position where they could wrap him yeah it is not a bad move better than what they can do now .
but you agree blow it up ?
maverick ceo you might a call mic mcdonald see if he want to do the job .
he should get pay .
yeah thats .
they are they are mid four and four whats gon na happen is they are gon na probably move off a gno after this here rightfully yeah thats about it until they get rid of gno .
i do not want to hear .
i do not want to talk about this team josh allan through his first pick .
he not an mvp .
go fuck yourself .
now you can make an argument for jared golf but not allon .
go fuck yourself .
anyway this game is pretty much over with yeah once again charge beat the saint .
i do not know if yah is in here .
yah your boy rillers a fucking bomb he son .
we have a general rule ?
yeah we have a rule that we do not take rookie season that ?
ill take rookie quarterback .
thats unless they are un utterly garbage no no no no but we we generally stick to that rule yeah but this is the first exception .
i think we made ever because rattler bad besides bragg show .
yeah besides bragg show .
yeah and there are exception where we break that rule when they are you said when they are fucking trash that it is undeniable that they are not a good quarterback ha he ha shown any flash at all ?
rattler a third string quarterback .
maybe maybe if you rj you can develop him into a third string quarterback .
how about that ?
bro i do not know if these clip but there they did a documentary on him when back in high school in college all he did wa shit on all of his teammate about how bad they were he not good he not good .
he ha talent .
he ha talent about time damn there we go .
all whatever a very exciting game ceo commander beat bear eighteen to fifteen on a hail jalen jaden daniel see all your thought this wa an interesting game .
obviously i guess battle of the rookie .
honestly there not much you can get off this game it is too rookie organization .
it is too rookie quarterback with two two trash head coach and two mid organization yeah and these defense are good .
you put rookie behind them there not much to say about this .
yeah that is true shes beat the raider .
is anybody shocked shes feeling the soup bowl .
it is what it is it is weird because the cheese are not destroying people .
yeah but they win they do not care at this point .
yeah they do not care .
this is good .
it is what it is .
i still stand by her being traded i do not know if you guy have looked at the stats if you guy think fucking whats the name alex smith the game manager .
no it wa in by the way it is not what i do not is i do not think herbers a bad quarterback .
no i do not i do not think first of all yes he in a poverty organization and he surrounded by nothing .
he surrounded by nobody .
but he ha no weapon which is by the way ?
who by the way would be winning my bet if we still had that going on yeah and by the way damn lad had one hundred and eleven yard today and two touchdown .
i think off of that game alone .
i would have won the bet listen yeah he not a good a people think he is thats my problem with him because we still have people arguing for the fact that this thing is a top five quarterback when he not .
no he not and thats .
he doesnt need to be a top five quarterback .
he need to go to a good organization he should get traded .
he should because obviously i think people people already hate greg roman people are calling for his job and i and by the way lamar won a super bowl with greg roman at the helm not super bowl my bad .
he won an mvp with with bum as with bum as mile bokeh and a his number one receiver willy senead .
you can not i can not make excuse for herbert .
other than good luck .
hopefully you do get traded that way you can win some shit because let be honest rj .
whats his name ?
harbaugh his style play boring and and not good for for it is outdated ?
yeah it is outdated yeah it is what is there .
and a we speak the 49ers are up thirteen thirteen to ten listen look i do not care who win this game dak and brock are beyond fucking horrible .
these guy do not deserve the money that they are getting i do not see a bro .
this is beyond ridiculous .
first of all bop pretty fucking suck .
my gosh absolutely brock is an out of good quarterback .
and by the way and if he if they win this game which i think they probably will not it is because the nfc east is fucking trash yeah .
apart from i guess the eagle who are i think a little bit of fool gold yeah apart from them .
i there who else i am the commander are learning how to win the john are utterly horrible the the john are the john are fucking they are not an they are not an nfl organization either .
it is what it is listen nine is if you do not listen i am expecting you to win this game because it is the cobblies and dak prescott is sorry at this point yeah speaking of that .
he he sorry a too bro .
he sorry .
he now see who wa you put in the top ten hurt or dak if you had to choose one yeah i probably go with hurt off the simple because they both had weapon ?
they both had some success .
i would put hurt only because i can run him a full a fucking power bag .
all but in that style where i can if if i can use his running the stack prescott run .
yes but he not a i think an effective runner a a hurt is i would use him for that now .
is he in term of passing .
you threw it ?
bro if i would have picked that get to put him on top .
i wouldnt look a fucking clown .
i jordan doe jordan have a a turnover issue a little bit but he way better he if he down he can come back that is not that quarterback .
he can not come back .
he suck jordan he when he throw a pick what he trying to hell take he a highrisk guy .
yeah but it is with that .
listen do you understand why ?
listen a some people ask me why i do not football .
i love the sport of football i hate the nfl and i think ceo said it last week baseball a a product on the field is supremely better than football especially the six club this product is bad .
yeah argie because i do when it come to sport ?
the i think we both agree that football is better .
there no maybe the .
see yo that game wa only two hour yeah baseball would be three to four with this pitch clock .
i am done with it .
and by the way speaking on the ref ?
not only not only yet .
they it change every year but at the same time it is they are they are they are only they are only employed half time yeah you are telling a bunch of parttime employee to go do a fulltime job yeah it is bullshit .
stop with the turf .
stop with the overseas shit stop with the ad stop overpaying these player brock perty and dak stop it yeah and who and give competent people to make the schedule please .
yes stop adding game putting giant on the fucking prime time fact and then i think this week is a jet in texan .
i am thursday night yeah who want to see that i do not want to see no jet yeah i wa speaking of that ceo steel and giant tomorrow who you got steelers brother fucking wipe in the clock with the giant and ceo .
you are still not gon na do it bro can you read me off the stats at daniel jones and prime time ?
i would love to hear those yeah you got a point .
i think all the role game .
speaking of i wa .
i think we both have the texan ceo the jet are being superb they are cooked they suck they have maybe if they had robber sula i might call for an upset but this defense is fucking bad .
also nathaniel hack it suck .
i do not know why erin rodgers like this guy fucking much you have brice hall one of the best running back in the fucking league you do not use him at all to no you do not but even stay wait what ?
thats exactly why the why erin rogers fired him .
this is all rogers fault hold on .
i wa a good coach but what w rober sula for one to fire this fucking bozo yeah absolutely .
he wa on a farm thats a and erin rogers came in to save the day for him for his buddy but destroy the jet organization simultaneously .
this is rogers fault yeah beyond stupid falcon cowboy .
i do not fucking know you have you have kurt and then kurt junior all it is twenty to ten .
apparently cowboy are cowboying .
yeah yeah i am gon na go with the falcon i think honestly i think the better team and honestly let be real .
at this point would you rather have kirk or dak ?
ill take the titan patres will be here we beat them and did not have a letdown this week bro this is bad you are i am gon na go with the page .
no no i do not want to go up it i am gon na go with the patriot but i am but i am i am begging the titan to to win i can destroy a certain fag in the discord what i am talking about .
anyway this should my end in the one thousand and ten time raider bingle unfortunately i got the bingle winning especially losing this week i think they have a comeback in the red is fucking horrible .
yeah bangle bangle are gon na win but they are cut either way .
it is all good raven bronco obviously raven bronco nice story rookie quarterback .
boy next look pretty good but obviously raven at home losing to the brown brown obviously this is a comeback win .
i love you james but no sorry yeah i am gon na go charger .
it wa the brown being the rate wa fluky .
i am gon na go with the charger yeah saint panther saint .
spencer riley might be bad but the same panther whole organization is probably even fucking worse .
this is another first cowboy player with two interception and the three straight regular season game ninety two dach presscott thats not making seventy five million people .
yo the fact that they still clown that defend them bro i do not know how you defend .
hey listen my mccarthy suck but that is even fucking worse bro bro you have you have major cowboy youtube channel that still defend that thats how bad it is whatever it is what is dolphin bill bill you have a miami team .
they could even win miami this week .
you have a miami team coming to buffalo not great .
i do think the game will be close because the bill game are always fucking close with miami but going bill hit there commander giant commander man i for some reason ceo dame jones always show up against the commander .
come on .
i am done with that bum i pulled never put faith on him i know bro but come on bro .
he he he breaking that trend i put see you can not even this year against the washington only beat the giant by fuel goal .
there the thing though .
it is if they lose this monday it is bro .
it is gon na be it is and then the the commander won an emotional game .
it is i can definitely see a lot down here you are going with the giant everybody anybody who know me know i fucking hate the giant .
i probably hate the giant more than any team in the league but fuck it .
god this nigga that suck i know anyway jaguar .
you want to the the eagle are facing a stretch of bad team .
is there to filly obviously filly .
yeah filly is definitely gon na win this but is it me or or they they havent the easiest schedule now they got a easy schedule .
see ill give them that yeah thats an easy ask jaguar .
anyway eagle you shouldnt be happy about this because it is probably mean you are gon na keep nick sarian yeah nick .
i do not care what people say .
yeah bear cardinal i get the carnals won but no they are on a two game winning streak .
i feel if this is a letdown ceo .
i have a feeling about that i am i am gon na go bear bear would be the the better choice here because the defense and but i ima go cardinal for a three for a three game winning streak yeah wouldnt shock me .
ill i caleb but kyle is my boy but be safe .
ima go bear ram seattle .
this is a dome team going to green bay in in november .
yeah listen bro .
they replaced it .
no those eagle philly first no those eagle and jacksville and they flexed at the four and put the viking and colt why did they flex that shit ?
yeah why do not you put the lion and the packer there ?
falcon and fucking the falcon the cow wa weve got in this shit. . is there any a part go go back .
it is i am not even that interested in three hour .
yeah apart from that game is there any game on that on the schedule that you were i want to watch it look at it yeah but it is .
i rather falcon cowboy might be interesting .
we ended up with the monday night buck chief chief this game would have been good if godwin and evans did not get injured yeah but yeah it is chief hand down yeah chief it is what it is .
net you that your guy is a gaily dose of any nfl whats good tide ?
whats good ?
grow him out scott whats good nfl production on ceo let talk a little basketball and unfortunately brandons not here to review the celtic and nick game that happened tuesday last tuesday .
ill see your thought on the celtic nick my thought on the celtic nick is first of all brandon owes me fifty buck .
thats one he owes me one hundred because the john are about to finish fourth and after and hell owe me one hundred and fifty after the celtic sweep i am not sweet but win we are smart betting against brandon but this guy ha no job .
we are done for this shit yeah that is true at least we get a bragging over him .
yeah he rj if he can get a consistent three going bro .
it is it is gon na be i do not think anyone can stop them if he can shoot there no prosingus out there and there wa no prosingus .
thats and our big man that game wa i think whats that ?
that white boy number forty ?
yeah and alharford and harford i am surprised he did not retire he did not look that bad out there .
let me see you got a chance to get a second .
why would you retire ?
listen this team is white the back bonus team is white in holiday .
i think they are we are gon na get them about what they did the cat yeah they are they are i know listen .
i do not think it need anything i think it is fine the way it is the chemistry is good .
thats what they did and and and plus i missoula ethos i his what he stand for very standup individual i i missoula a lot .
i do not know who that wa that wa shooting ball and he looked stupid doing it .
but it wa bridge .
yeah he i do not know what the fuck that wa he wa doing but whatever the hell he wa doing looked funky .
shit this is obviously after this is obviously after the nick dominated the piece which how burn a bum zero point to assist what i am saying but i want to talk about this game ceo .
yeah listen i i know people are hyped that how that cat had a good game against the pace and everybody know the pace are fucking fraud they are fucking soft .
i am not gon na hype that up this dude cat wa getting bodied by juhau day in fucking derrick white our center getting bodied by two fucking guard ceo who are not even above six three the they are six three and he supposedly six eleven seven foot ?
yes and they are they are out working him bodying him pushing him back .
thats the thing .
he doesnt fit he never fitted it .
he never fucking fitted it .
he doesnt fit the culture ?
why see there ?
why did thibbano say it would green light that bullshit ?
this is this is the same exact thing thats gon na happen with the nick cat is not it yes the nick will make the playoff .
yes well go to the second round but we seen it last year cat get body yep you put a little bro .
mackayl i i am done with the villanova boy .
i am i am done with this shit bro .
i i feel first of all getting rid of of divin chenzo .
yeah i did not that move randall .
i do not care about randall because i think he suck .
yeah cat i say he doesnt fit the system .
is that the best they could do ?
i could i could see a situation or scenario where that happens i i do not think cat is cat is someone with a lot of talent and zero intangible fact he a tall version of ben simmons .
me honest dude brunny sends in a g league seal your thought good he should be sent to this g league .
he not good he not good .
brunny wa should never see the court .
he only got if if his name if if his last name wa in james he would be flipping burger listen for development reason .
he should stay in the g league for two three year honestly for being honest probably will not be that long but he should be down there for a long time and thats what i say .
he not ready .
ill see all your thought i it because i am tired of the load management bullshit .
thats why you get paid if you are not injured you should be playing load management is them either faking injury to some degree yep to stay my my ankle a little sore it is nothing wrong with it but i feel a little it feel tender .
i am gon na give a this game off to him beat he can sit down to avoid any injury thats bullshit .
they do not want to play this season .
they only want to play game that matter yeah they either need to cut down the game or the you need to start finding player for stop being for being lazy fuck because thats exactly what that is yeah and now these next two topic .
inside the mba and see yo i want to i want to let this is the year two thousand and twenty four .
it is not two thousand and fourteen .
it is not even it is not two thousand and four .
it is not one thousand nine hundred and ninety four .
the prime new show whatever it is gon na be is gon na be a lesbian black woman spineless white guy some black stimp and another black angry woman who wish she wa a black man .
no i am not jewish and i hate let me stop listen this is utterly disgusting and you have people terry and see yo who love jew for some reason i do not know why but i yeah i do not yeah i do love jew .
thats sure that i love jew .
youve been working with this fucking company and you say no for amazon why do people love amazon fucking much ?
can we go back to the day where amazon wa something where you order shit off of i am first of all back in the old day amazon wa a bookstore mainly let go back to that .
you guy do realize that streaming is getting more and more and more and more and more costing more and more and more which mean cable want to get their head out their as is gon na realize .
for you to put them all on streaming site .
it is what the fuck yeah it is usually the old people yeah thats a watch it on cable but let see .
and thats it cost even fucking more .
yeah it is fifteen here ten here twenty there .
it is at that point at that point i might a pay cable and have one monthly bill yeah thats thats a thats a whole fact .
did not you say someone wa it i forgot you put in a discord someone wa illegally streaming something yeah it wa an i think it wa tyreek woollen from the sea sea ox .
he wa illegally streaming a fuck game .
i am even you taught me these fucker who are millionaire do not even fucking pay for for the streaming service .
why the fuck are we gon na pay for the stream service ?
yeah it is twenty .
yeah it used to be five buck and now it is twenty dollar and i think over the course of five year .
it is got amazon prom went up in price too yeah that went up in price youtube tv which i am paying for went up in price .
you have a chance here to fight back .
do not fuck it up fact or do you yeah thats the fact .
yeah mba is going on peacock too .
i forgot about that shit peacock first of all peacock suck .
i got a i pay for the subscription one time to try it .
yeah nothing to watch it is fucking trash .
yes this rerun of show that you can watch anywhere peacock i think i do not know if it is mbcs yeah i think it is mbcs a platform ramp .
yeah but it is peacock show consist of of shit .
i never heard about bro .
if you go on peacock network and and i and i put something wwe two hundred and five live who care about that shit ?
you got fucking bro i can not i can not even name you thing because if i tell you what they are you are gon na be what the fuck is that ?
it is not worth i forget last time i i pay for it .
it wa five dollar ?
yeah i wonder what it cost now because no way it is five dollar now i think brandon add it .
it suck this see maybe maybe you watch jason willow maybe willow ha a point maybe sport is dying out the product is beyond watered and i am telling all sport .
thats football but there no root to these sport anymore yeah you got ta appreciate it bro yeah shout out to jordan nfl production say i got peacock because it wa free .
thats fine .
yeah i heard that wa good i did not have max for a while .
i think i would agree .
it is one of the better streaming service but listen here here the thing with sport .
football i am gon na have to be honest .
and i know it is bad for the player health i know it is it is not it is not humane let say .
yeah but it is one of those thing where it is people watch this sport because of hit stick and because how many you are when you were a kid .
what wa your favorite thing to do in madden ?
hit stick people thanks that wa the fit it now anytime someone get hit it is .
wheres the flag ?
it is not a it is not an enjoyable product it is more football is le of what it used to be now .
this is always existed now great do we want to see guy get hurt and have all these messed up injury ?
why did i have a feeling you you would disney bro ?
yeah disney plus is horrible and he id hbo they used to have good boxing coverage on there but ever since floyd left they havent but trust me .
i these stream that suck i hate this with a passion speaking of thing that we hate with a passion erin boom and erin and erin judge .
my god judge bro erin ironically both name erin listen listen i do not care .
see how much it cost whatever one soto want .
we are seeing it in prime time now he bro .
he he rustle .
westeros james hardin probably james hard this dude strike out at the most pivotal moment of the game hell get a star you couldnt count in i wa yep i go i watch him go up in the plate instead of being my god .
this is an mvp this is a sixty homer guy ?
i am thinking they are here we go here come the three strike are out and on point it is thats what happens .
i am he a choker yeah he he a choke artist .
how many year ha to go by before people realize it .
he a choker .
and honestly if you can not rely on them then we are handicap and i am there no way i am letting juan soto walk out that door without offering a billion dollar contract no fucking way .
i am you no no you sign them you sign them and then and if you lose the series what you can get for judgment .
i am dead serious i i i know he supposed to be this yankee icon ?
but at this point can you be a yankee icon without doing shit in the post season ?
no speaking of that people shit on my boy alex rodriguez .
yeah he doe .
he look scared when he at the plate thats not an mvp there .
thats not a franchise player .
thats a bitch yeah that is true my gosh and boom you are not off the hook too .
what what is up with the rotation of these picture ?
my gosh what why why in the world aaron judge ha a problem in the clutch why do you not put state in or fucking juan soto ?
after him bass is loaded .
i rather have state in there at least staying can get walk yeah at least he can get someone to base this dude judge can not do shit .
take these next three game at home but bro there no way i am letting seal .
there no way we can let stand walk out the door .
there no no soda there no way we can let him walk out this door without offering a huge contract .
there no way .
no way if we do not have soda we are cut we are for fucking cooked bro no no he not leaving .
they are not they are not letting him leave without no they are not letting him leave they they can not go they can not not looking at what they have in fucking judge .
hell no they can not live i do not know .
yeah my gosh listen to jeeter bro this my god this clown deck almost threw a third interception .
why is he still your gm ten fucking you jeeter retired in two thousand and fourteen ?
it is been eleven fucking year bro what are we fucking doing here bro and people are who are you gon na replace him with any fucking body ?
this is stale .
he the giant horrible of the yankee .
thats the fact the we could have lost to the guardian .
i am gon na be tasteful no we are not we are not gon na let him walk if we let him walk we are not seeing another fucking series you can not go this is our first world series in what what ?
fifteen year you can not let this guy walk .
you can not you can not you got to offer him something you do not both you do not let him leave the fucking building without giving him a blame check .
you do not let him leave until he sign the fucking contract bro bro listen .
no thats soto and shouhei .
thats over .
it is over .
it is fucking no no listen first of all there nothing more prestigious in in in sport in general sport and being a yankee player ?
and that and by the way for those who are saying the america team dallas cowboy .
look at that shit product .
listen nothing more prestigious than being yankee player plus they are gon na take care of him financially .
he said i do not think he want but where else is he gon na go ?
the dodger fuck the dodger .
if it is tax it is high tax over there too i do not know world he good .
there no way they let him walk no fucking way to let him walk .
i am surprised my favorite player on the team keep me honest with you that is that where i am that volpe dude ?
is he supposed to be good ?
he all because he replaced jeter ?
yeah i do not know .
he look at me to me .
i am i wa hit the ball only judge .
ill say that yeah yeah thats sad man .
unless unless i see some one of the best world series performance out of judge i want him gone i am listen .
i got one and i got stay in here to help me and especially they are coming before if i am aaron boom i am what maybe if one and fucking stand are coming after judge .
maybe he will not feel that much pressure and maybe hell hit him .
hell get some hell get some single and some double but you put him at the most pressurewise fucking position .
gal is scored all it is one thousand seven hundred and twenty seven .
no the fuck he not no come on bro i am sorry why is aaron boom on a fucking team bro ?
my gosh this dude is a read this dude for you derek he ha been saying it for fucking year .
this guy a fucking retard yeah i remember when when people were calling for joe gerardi job yeah because it got because he got stale i miss joe gerardi now .
yeah he better than fucking boom .
ill say that boom suck and jesus even when he wa with the florida marliners he still loved the yankee .
i do not know if you saw it but there wa a clip of i think g. it wa the cast of fox they have a cast of alechor egas david artis and derek which is a good cast it is inside the envy .
i love that cast but mets mascot came up to them and derek jeter walked off the set .
thats how fucking loyal this guy he been retired for ten year and he walked off the set when he saw that dirty as baseball walk up to him yeah if derek jeter say he as it is in his best interest .
he a yankee for life hell i would have jeter a the manager the fucking boom yeah boom .
yeah it is bad when you are in the world series and people are tired of fact it is what is yankee you guy play tomorrow get it done man .
we got ta win these next three game we especially if if we lose and shohai otanis out work we are cooked yeah that would make the situation much worse yeah they hired the sculptor off team .
we had to fuck the way we i do not give a fuck about him this statue is whats up with these mba statue cove statue sucked the wayne wade statue sucked what are we doing here ?
first of all we shouldnt be making statue of human being they are human .
the wayne a basketball player yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah thats a good point id rather give a worldclass surgeon a statue than a fucking than a fucking some dude that dribble a ball fuck no speaking of it .
can i see here and say ceo the wayne way i am sorry .
i still can not go with that .
this guy wa a shooting guard .
he can not shoot but am i the only one that bought did not bother me can you name a shooting guard that couldnt shoot ceo ?
but blue jay are as .
i agree with that .
but the blue jay nothing .
because jordan friend said i picked the dollar to win because i hate the yankee a a blue jay your blue jay fan are jordan francis .
i did not know that thats unfortunate jordan yeah some blue jay are are they poverty ?
they got a few do they have one world series ?
i know they won one in the early 90 when they first came in but i do not think they won one sense go oreo tear your oreo fan .
how the fuck are you a filly in an oros man ?
yeah it is weird i wa speaking to that .
they have two .
all i guess they are not poverty no no i think we have to have a different conversation about poverty in baseball over football ?
because in football the most chip the team ha a six now ?
yeah if you have two thats pretty pretty poverty .
yeah thats part because the yankee have twenty seven thats poverty we can not compare any team to the yankee .
we have to go off the cardinal which is eleven maybe four if you have four world series you are not poverty and basketball .
how many of the cell doe have eighteen ?
yeah i think .
maybe three you have at least three here because we had because yeah the only one in football we have a low standard because the highest team ha six yeah yo scooter make gricker is the most illusion fan i ever seen .
i do not know who the fuck that is who scooter is ceo scooter .
i do not who he is he a he a cowboy .
he a he a entertainer thats the best you put it who who the who love the cowboy cowboy bro i do not know why bro .
i want to blow shit up this is not gon na happen until jerry dead .
this is what is there ?
and even then stephen jones is probably my god bro this is and by the way be nine or because you are whooping on the cowboy that yall still aint shit either bronco poverty .
no bronco have three or four championship yeah they have i think they have three three championship .
yeah they won two without way will not pay them .
scooter michael thats i do not know what michael take wa on that but grim off scott grim off can i ask the question ?
why is your profile picture a picture of james harden who a travis scott ?
yeah sorry scott why is your profile picture this ?
yeah thats an l. thats an l to be honest travis scott stateness and james hardens a choker .
no i wa i forgot about that .
i wa talking about james harden suck why would you have a profile picture ?
he suffering on his giant channel now sorry it is it is the the whole the whole realization that dame jones is trash and now he ha to convince his own fan base that he trash is hilarious yeah dame jones suck .
this is damn funny .
i watch every week .
your eagle been a question yeah thats yeah he is funny .
thats why we watch him but listen i do not know .
i if you are a giant fan i seen a hope rj whats the hope if you are a giant fan .
yeah but i said i see i said it there .
i said it at the time when i said it said it now if they do not draft the quarterback this draft i do not care how good marvin malik joe is quarterback .
you need a quarterback and look look what they are doing now look look where it is at now .
they believe the daniel jones again and come on man .
hey whats it called a grill mouse cop honestly i do not think malik is your hope because every time i see malik getting interviewed he it feel he hate being there bro yeah he bro .
see yo see yo this even with that see yo bro anytime the giant get a flashy player .
yeah they always leave odell sake one .
it is gon na be the same thing with malik yeah the only difference with sake .
with not sake one with odell ?
yeah is that yeah odell wa flashy ?
he wa a little controversial slightly ?
yeah but he it looked he wanted to be there .
he wa at least smiling .
he wa at least talking to the fan .
he it looked he wanted to be there ?
even if yall suck but malik actively look he depressed me would you be yeah i would be but he doesnt want to be there .
he doesnt the giant .
it is obvious did not see did not you say he wa on my instagram live in la saying yall i love la .
obviously thats throwing shade at daniel jones he doesnt want to be there bro .
he annoyed .
he faster .
i wouldnt be surprised if he instead of them trying to trade him .
he demand a trade and i hope he doe man .
yeah get out new york bro .
you deserve better i want the giant to be trash for the next thirty year because they they deserve this ceo .
they they deserve this they are a horrible franchise .
i do not know if you watch barry mcconnor he football basketball contact curator .
he call the giant the floormariness of the nfl they win a fluke super bowl every year how the floor manner were in a fluke world series every year but they are not a real franchise they do not have consistency at all .
mommy you are yeah you got a point neighbor hate his qb much .
he called him janiel jones yeah thanks they bow see yall bro .
this dude anytime a receiver get drafted even at the quarterback ship .
i can not wait to play with the next and a third malik neighbor .
hey how do you feel about playing with daniel jones ?
well see what happens well see what happens ?
my god yo no but it is if i am but here the thing arger ?
why are you drafting a player that doesnt want to be there ?
i do not know and see you he a why you also got ta realize he a wide receiver wide receiver usually kiss the as of their whorebecks because thats who get the big payday .
he saying fuck that shit yeah my god she lamb going off against rj cowboy trying to come back bro the cowboy aint doing shit no cd lamb is is roll roice in in the hood now .
thats what he is .
yeah fact speaking of that and i will say this because i admit certain thing ?
what i am saying because ill give you prop rj because you are you are not on many take ill give you prop when you do get one correct .
i do not know a lot of take is micro person playing i havent seen him .
hey can someone tell me if michael person is playing is if he playing then i am gon na give me a credit because thats got ta touch on that that got a touchdown yeah it is twenty it is thirty to twenty four if they make the p.a.t .
and michael not playing. . yeah because i wa about to say this name is a whole bum if he playing best ability availability that explains a lot if they had a mic and they would have been winning ?
fuck out of here mike aint doing shit .
that aint doing shit yeah see he carrying bro .
see this is why dak ha good number because see these carrying this fucking bum .
yeah yeah yeah but the thing is yeah dak is this is where this is where dak that pad .
yes yes the raven .
yeah yeah that is true .
yeah he did that bad .
cd bro i do not know why he why he resigned he could have won somewhere else but i guess i guess being a guess being a dallas cowboy must be very appealing to some people ?
that ha died cute i agree terry listen cam ward and it is cam not can cam ward might have potential might but he need to sit if he go to a dog shit team of the giant season start and be asked i am sorry .
no he too he too he too rapper if that make sense he he he he going through the same thing he want to be a hood nigga even though he living in kohsak this whole fucking you are not a hood nigga stop being a hood nigga .
first of all it is not a compliment to be a hood nigga .
thats one yeah people are hood nigga because they were born in in poverty not because they wanted to be a hood nigga .
thats one two why all this all riding up in a roll royce flexing his rolex after winning game thats corny do you am i the only one who think thats corny ?
yeah by the way sure if you do that to a hood nigga you do not get you will get your shit snapped real clapped real quick fast and hurry speaking of that cam ward is not a dog .
he not built to go to a dog shit team all .
a terry terry terry where would you ?
you say cam ward is a leak because he said cam ward is a leak ?
yeah where would you if he went into the league ?
where would he fall within the quarterback ranking ?
and by the way thats bullshit cam ward .
see yo i said it before i said again cam ward entered this draft this last draft he wa going to get he wasnt projected to go in the third round .
no if you him much and he a lee ?
i shit he getting the miami team is good i am not gon na deny that i am on floor safe man .
i hate miami but they are a good team but cam ward i am not if you were go to i do not fucking if you were go to the cowboy and sit for a few year under dad .
thats a good circumstance .
yeah that is ill go ill go with it yeah definitely agree with that .
i cam ward and tangibles if thats what you mean but i am something .
when you have the best team .
my gosh yo the fuck not a much old a shit i know who doe who he reminds me of a little bit zach wilson cam ward thats thats the chat about to go crazy on you bro .
no can it the origin ?
he a little better than zach .
i am talking about college jack i do not i never wa high on zach .
you are not high on cam listen i am not high on cam it is not disrespectful .
it is not disrespect .
it is what i am seeing is similarity to zach wilson .
why the fuck would you want him ?
wheres the worst version of jaden daniel ?
yeah and because i am gon na go on nfl draft plus it is a website where they compare all the draft profile and how they are similar to to to core back and leave ima look up .
let me pull that up here .
all first ima do shador yeah shador is a mobile pocketbasket .
yep and his three closest comp ?
he if you went out i would he around that level ?
yeah not bad all let look up cam board yep all prospect ranking cam board cam board .
let see his three similarity level they said eighty one percent matching to jj mccarthy thats about j j mccarthy .
all terry are you high on jj mccarthy ?
and thats he a mobile jj mccarthy thats not a good thing i know we did not see i know listen .
he changed his name that could be because he ha horrible shit quarterback take it could be that would make sense is it would make my god it say karsten beck ha similarity to will lover .
thats horrible no flag all cowboy go for now they go for now .
it is hilarious anthony rich ha to be in there .
it is in no it is not even that good is it jaylon milton ?
no it is jaren hall whole and clayton toon awesome let ask the cause expert here .
i do not even know who those guy are clayton toon bro .
thats arizona backup quarterback well see well see how that is going jaylon .
all terry at least you are not completely returning yeah jaylons horrible .
i think he suck he not good i am never jaylon this quarterback class it is a dick .
i do not want a cat bro yeah it doe .
i do not any quarterback coming out of this draft class .
i know some people are climbing dylan gaverill .
i do not him he he the eighth ranked prospect wheres he coming out the fourth round ?
i do not know organ make it deep in the playoff .
he might come he might he first bro look look these are his most comparables there comparison level seventy five spencer rattler seventy five seventy five stetson bened it is this thats about .
listen do not do not let it be fooled .
this organ team is stacked dylan gaverill i watched him in oklahoma .
no intangible talented and i i wa gon na say he more his highest ceiling is bold mix but if you are highest ceiling is bold mix no yo this yeah i wa the sec is a tough conference .
holy shit .
yeah they suck bro .
they are not that good yo queen bro i am not queen .
whats his as ?
his name ?
archmaning leave leave georgia texas is a down climbing team .
come to the state .
all wait who ?
yeah thanks this because texas aint it bro .
how the hell do you almost lose the vanderboe and choke to vanderboe ?
but see whats your thought on college football you watching a lot of the college football whats your thought on it ?
yeah i hate watching people kaiju and awesome kid i can not it is not it is fun for me but i can not i am yeah i have a team because fsu suck nut one in seven or something .
yeah it is you have no one to root for suck in that aspect let see .
this is the build up bro .
it is the build up i wa about to fucking say some shit before damn yeah by the way cowboy lost good .
they suck .
they deserve it .
yeah hey nah bro i am you first of all both these team suck .
yeah but why you have the niner are on the decline too ?
it is you went from it is i do not know .
i do not get it if thats i am not saying it is comparable in talent level but thats me hopping on to the titan but whats the point ?
yeah fifty buck bum you owe me one hundred too .
john should finish your fourth what did i tell you brandon you fucking bum ?
i told you we are gon na fucking obliterate you and you kept laughing talking about championship team do not win on on opening day .
yeah good luck with that figure yeah yeah brandon did not pop on the pot this week .
he can handle a smoke .
he ha an excuse this week .
maybe the giant will beat the steelers tomorrow .
see yo thats his prediction .
there this retarded i think he did pick the giant brandon .
did you pick the giant against the steelerss money ?
i to be fair shot the leather leather off the ball and a team of ten wimbys wasnt blocking them .
i picked this .
you picked the steelers .
i thought you picked the giant i am on .
i aint nobody picking on giant .
i even brand is picking giant .
i do not remember brandon will be on the for the sport podcast this next sunday talk more next basketball celtic basketball what i am saying what one basketball season see you ?
yeah i prefer can not wait till the i am more excited after the allstar game for the nba yeah at the beginning it is i this is my last year watching nfl until roger gadell resigns .
good luck with that then he sounded a ten year contract over year ago yeah sure .
this is my last year watching the nfl until gadell resigns .
yeah thats for sure see it is dog shit bro .
yeah it is about time it is not about the giant trust me .
i watched worst giant team and still enjoyed the product still yeah a a fact .
what do you think about do you go into t a t tvm ?
i do not care what is that mature ?
yeah it is matter .
it must be hurting for money what are going to netflix i watched the old highlight of the sport then the the current new one because i can see the memory that i love the best and play out .
yeah yes yes yeah there nothing there nothing football in two thousand fucking nine yeah two thousand and nine football bro that wa some good football there how are you two thousand and fifteen wa better than this horseshit ?
what i am saying rj i had it is yeah bro .
it is it is now .
it is all the game is on yeah but before it wa it wa it wa a whole big deal .
it took me away from football .
i can definitely i do not know ufc but if i agree with brandon on that in term of ufc i get that same feeling now that usually is when i know two good fighter are about to fight yeah you had to have a good card .
yeah you hit when you have a when you have a good card you are yeah buddy .
but now if with football it is the cowboy and niner is supposed to be two premier franchise ?
yeah and it doesnt i do not feel anything i cautious football is also better than yeah on the on the field .
yes college football is there more of i bro last year i wa having much fun with florida state you must have a nice yeah bro even oklahoma the beginning of this year .
i loved it the defense my gosh half those hit oklahoma doe theyll get theyll get arrested in the nfl for that shit .
yeah that is true no not the nba product the nba product is awful here the thing about that .
do i think the nba listen is the midrange game dead in the nba ?
it is getting more mainstream but i wish it wa more mainstream than there yeah but yes i will agree .
ufc is better than the nfl is there any product that the nfl is better than or jay ?
the w nba come on bro .
see you can not keep change your product every year and then cut off the root of your product hey yo and grim mouth scott say w cat i am the nfl product this suck .
anybody here prefer soccer over football ill park from rj obviously not because i watch the world cup most of the time when it come and do not care about regular season fly after rj you are over yeah listen because you guy guy listen .
i hate soccer .
i hate soccer but at the same time listen bro the nfl product is dead .
there no root to it a world cup and copa cup wa better than the nfl product .
i can not lie brandon is officially certified nfl here at this point i do not bro .
listen i i i believe you are jake is i know where you are coming from but when when brandy say i feel it is because the john suck if they were good he wouldnt be saying this should sorry yeah boy at the same time .
it is this product is bad it is it is bad .
i am depressed that florida state suck but boy east state in ohio state .
i wa out of i wa on the edge of my seat hell boy east state versus oregon on the edge of my seat texas and georgia wa a blowout but i loved every single second of it come on man .
it is the same seal .
it is the same thing .
it is football .
it is football .
it is the same thing howd you want to see the answer question ?
random question my dad think jerry jones is gon na hire nigga saving p caro bill bellichick .
whats the question ?
yeah thats true .
there is no question statement if you are asking u is that a good idea ?
no because nick saving wa horrible in the nfl p caro i do not think he leaving seattle but p caros peaked himself and bill bellichick is overrated mean the old expounding upon that on multiple occasion .
it bill bell check would become id id id be cool with bill bell check a the dc author he say the head coach the rave you are wilding .
no a the dc .
hed be nice listen bill bell check suck .
yeah obviously scoring is part of the nfl but the nfl at it peak in the early 2000s late 90 had a balance of it .
i do not see how storyline affect on the field product on the field product thats thats drama .
thats nfl .
but thats normal .
you get that in every sport yeah and nfl product say there still defensive team .
there no defense .
name me one defensive team and i am gon na keep it real with the ceo .
i do not think there are defensive team in the nfl i think the nfl product bad and these offense and these quarterback are bad that there little scoring game steelers how about that ?
i said i think the quarterback are bad in that the product suck but it say i do not i do not know brandon can you elaborate on the whole story line out ?
how is how are four story ?
if colin if colin cowherd say something on a show and it is a stupid take i do not see how thats running on the field product look at the defensive team the jet used to be there .
they suck the bear the bear they do not suck but they are mid in their rebuilding team raven suck yeah i came with the raven used to be good .
now they suck bill they play dog shit team the cowboy suck the niner suck let le but but hit i do not get where you are coming from .
i am in my opinion because notice nfl production .
how are you ?
i am not trying to the little bro .
you but how are you bro ?
opinion yeah that would make sense because if you guy have considerable age gap that would make a lot of sense yeah because i can i would assume that someone i do not know a little spongy probably doesnt understand where you are coming from .
yeah those nfl production how he seventeen how whats how much seal how old will he be to even remember the no fly on the legion of boom ?
what do you mean ?
we six year old ?
this wa a decade ago nfl production you do not understand how bad the product ha fold off within a ten year stretch and keep in mind nfl production back then the game wa soft to older people now .
i do not even know if you call it .
this is this this is flag football with helmet rj remember back in that era the 2013s 2014s and i remember back then even remember vontes perfect .
yeah thanks he would even then he wa he wa too aggressive even then can you imagine something that that he couldnt even play he couldnt even step on the field yeah thanks .
at least he had a job .
he would it flagged .
but at least he had a job .
hell that two thousand and eighteen cowboy team with vanderes and jaylen smith .
they used to lay motherfucker out and see this wa two thousand and eighteen .
wa it six year ago ?
yeah nfl production .
you are in high school i think you are i think fucking whats his name random editor one thousand nine hundred and twenty he older than you the game is beyond horrible .
there defensive team yeah they are not defensive team and i am keeping real with you .
the defense is getting bailed out by how horrible the offense is seal you would think with all these team with the nfls telling defense you can not play defense in the quarterback .
i received everybody getting paid .
you think this this should be arena football it is not even thats my gosh my top defense all time number one still curtain two legion of boom three doomsday defense .
see you are your master .
you are offensive shit defense your defensive list is garbage .
whats the doomsday defense ?
i did not start on the scene until i wa fifteen going off of that you started understanding football what ?
two thousand and twenty one this is what you grew up on yeah i can call it seal i think besides this cowboy in this cowboy is another game .
i did not watch i did not sit down and watch any full time watching my full attention out on my phone .
yeah it is not what it used to be but it is i do not know .
do i it more than i do not know .
it say i feel maybe i football more than you guy do that could be the nfl let make we are not much .
we are talking about the nfl specifically .
at this point it is it is anonymous with it because apart from the c cfb ?
there is no other relevant league there no yeah listen yeah there is no relevant league and and by the way getting rid of gondola .
yeah where it is a legit pas interference yeah or it is a legit tug or something where you could see where the why they would call it the the referee do not call it .
theyd let it pas and then the fan bitch about it they bitch about no call too .
they are in a position where i wa all we make the call you bitch we do not make the call .
thats bullshit absolute bullshit .
yeah it is not true horse shit my nigga horse shit and this yall remember when player bowled the fuck out in the pro bowl .
i am be honest you i do not care whether they bowled the fuck out in pro or not .
yeah great i did not they should get rid of the pro .
why this morning ?
yeah they should it is what is there a difference between brandons what two thousand and twenty one there a difference we can tell the difference see brandons maturity and me and cio maturity and we are at least three year older than him but yall are child .
ill see you yeah it is true .
we are gon na know even the nba started letting player play defense a little bit too id be watching the nick smack team with with leap what led pipe and baseball bat for twenty forty eight minute yeah that is a fact .
it is the same thing no it is better here the thing obviously i do not the sport of baseball more .
thats not happen .
yeah with football the model that football ha in term of now they are fucking it up with the the game ?
but before it wa a game on sunday the game are on sunday .
there seven .
there sixteen game every game fucking matter because there only fucking sixteen game yeah i it .
what i am saying i feel sport would benefit a lot more basketball .
it is shit we all do not tune into laughter fucking all star break .
yeah thanks i feel the the fact that the nfl ha much let say the celtic play the nick in game one .
all they they blew his shit but doe that game matter in the scheme of thing ?
i can not do it many game i agree with that but here the thing though if basketball say they cut the season down to god forbid they cut the season down to seventeen game seal .
i bet that first game to the last game you are watching every single celtic game if they cut down if if they cut it down yeah absolutely .
it would be a fun obviously you can not because of the the way the nfl the sport is more physical than basketball ?
yeah you can not you can not make you can not justify paying the basketball player the amount they get paid now and only have them pay let say seventeen game .
you can not justify that .
i will say this the nfl adding more game piss me off a too but if let say this if the mba could cut it down to fifty basketball game i think the product would improve hell even forty or forty can you imagine ? ?
can you imagine if they had let say forty five basketball game ?
i highly doubt it because that they are losing a lot of money .
yeah they are losing .
thats why they are watching and thats where i feel thats why i do not know is the nfl even fixable at this point because gambling is legal now and gambling always leaning towards offense in every sport but now in football it is shit .
yeah thats thats what i am saying it is look look at what what brand ha said earlier on the same ?
shit the cowboy suck as but i am happy that dad get garbage .
thats gon na have to force the nfl if especially if it come down on rating and stuff which i do not know when that will happen thats gon na force it to be better .
they are gon na be .
it is what you are doing now is not working no no it is not but why would they be upset about it ?
i am sorry yo guy nothing will be funnier then when ceo wa going at kaijus neck when he said woman do not violence it is thats one of the dumbest that it is bro .
come on yes belief this is those are stupid .
yeah they are stupid .
but thats this is the fact and kaiju thats very sexist for you to call woman stupid and you are calling bitch too hey thats very misogynistic kaiju .
it is two thousand and twenty four i jesus kaiju bro .
i swear to god sometimes i swore if he related to michael in some way i do not know .
i do not i do not i do not hate i will say this about michael .
i do not think michael ever complained about woman .
no michael dumb who care equal equality kaiju did not you say woman are equal to men ?
werent you you and ceo going on about this see arjun this is what i am being about .
he said who care equal quality what the fuck doe that even mean ?
i have no idea this is thats what do you use text to speech or something is half the statement you say kaiju doesnt a in human sense what kaiju even that you are wrong woman and men are not equal what what is he trying to say ?
i am assuming he trying to say men and woman are equal they can do the same thing but we know for a fact thats not true .
no thats not true but in a in human kaiju .
do you not know the difference between men and woman ?
this is element human should work together a unity .
what doe that have to do with anything my nick ?
we me people me and you we are the old guard i am saying we are not we are dying out see jesus we talk about it all the time .
see you listen there is no boy and girl no more say kaiju that he speaking fact .
thats what they are teaching u all yeah man .
this is it is a it is a philosophy .
it is stupid .
thats saying a red and blue are are the same color .
thats stupid they are probably gon na say that too also my dad support woman. . that make a lot of sense. . wait the fuck i have a power in that first of all no one said you did not have a father the household .
yeah i did not see and my dad support woman empowerment which would make sense negas want to be my badass profile picture .
you are making no sense yeah you all over the place but to this go beyond it is this society .
see you are a history guy .
this is babylon bro they did the same shit then and they did the same shit now all then the empire gon na fall eventually they all do man i do not know what your profile picture is .
i think see you took a shit on it last stream .
yeah we are tarted lizard is what is but peasant you guy have a minute or two say what you want to say before we head on out ill explain when you guy do a hangout .
they go on there yeah but thats michael it is from michael come on for everything shout out to michael but mike bro if you are gon na do i guess it is a hangout stream but you can not be silent when you are calling game bro .
yeah thats horrible he sits there and it is ten minute have passed .
he hasnt said a word .
i am whats the point of streaming ?
is what and plus we got to see kaiju and michael go ahead and we havent seen them go out michael want to go at you .
what i am saying i do not know what about he timed out apache jack because he chose his cousin and his sister what now apache jack .
yeah i forgot about him .
yo what happened ?
i thought i thought i thought you were apache jack bro i know one of you nigga is a specter .
thats all i know i what happened bro ?
by the way speaking of before you whatever happened to eric carmen remember yeah they are the little bronco .
i know you fell off a cliff yeah whatever happened to him .
one of you guy him too i am superior to yeah young dickhead is gone too but thats more thats more because he can not trouble about he said you banned him .
i did not ban him the only person i remember banning is that fucking fag that like skin fag that used to come in and say gay shit about me yeah big bertha i think that wa a fisting .
yeah yeah but that wa a fake account who wa that ?
my gosh whats his name ?
corey something .
corey harris .
yeah yeah that dude the white guy with the two chick next to him whatever shit man those were all fist account my gosh man those are good time man .
thanks peasant it is been it is been fun for you guy not for u obviously yeah well be back here next sunday with brandon talk some more football basketball praying to god that the yankee win but well see what happens .
ill see you any last word for the peasant nah i am tired with them .
every point sport podcast featuring greg and jack start now .
welcome in everyone to week eight in the nfl season .
how are you doing ?
it is been a tough week .
not a tough a it is been for the yankee but it is been it is been a it is been a battle ?
weve been trying to battle baseball a little bit of nca football yesterday .
penn state won that wa nice .
they feel a decent cover .
they cover i won on them .
i wa very happy with that .
and they feel a real they feel a real deal now ?
they went out to usc a couple week ago .
for all you knit me lion fan maybe it is time to start getting excited because they feel they could be maybe that team .
they are competing tough .
i know they have to play one of the two team michigan or ohio state .
i probably ohio state this year ?
theyll play in michigan this year .
theyll get it .
yeah but theyll get michigan .
yeah they should this year .
they should .
but i am saying even though they are let say they lose one of those game .
it is twelve team playoff this year .
your season is not over .
thats true .
thats true .
and that in year past penn state would be good good good .
and then theyd run into that bos buzz sawyer their michigan ohio state and have that one loss and their season wa done this year .
they do not have to worry about that .
twelve team playoff .
get in anything could happen once you are in the dance .
and they are live this year too .
they are they are live team .
for you nittany it is very good .
here what id to highlight before we get started today .
weird stuff happens in the halloween window .
and we in october 27th are in the halloween window .
we are definitely in it .
it is scary scary week .
it is a scary week .
it is a scary week .
i want what i want you guy to do maybe is you can watch the nfl game but hold your loved one tight because this one is a scary week .
would you ?
our first game .
we got tampa bay and hold on one second here .
let me scroll down here .
now get to it .
we got atlanta falcon at tampa bay buccaneer .
falcon are giving one and a half point over under is forty six and a half .
moneyline is negative one hundred and twenty two on the falcon and plus one hundred and two on the buccaneer .
my god plus one hundred and two .
let me explain to you something about this guy .
this line opened because tampa bay offense is on crutch .
godwins out .
white is white even playing .
they should call up tim tebow because thats what baker mayfield is going to have to do there in tampa .
yeah. . it started it opened to give you guy an idea here .
it opened at plus one hundred and seventy .
and i understand thats a divisional game .
i understand the bucs are going to fight hard .
when i started looking at line it moved to plus one hundred and forty .
then it moved to plus one hundred and ten .
what do you have it at now greg ?
plus one hundred and two .
one hundred and two .
one hundred and two .
this is even money .
yeah thats pretty much what you are saying even money .
even the falcon on the road are even money with a bucs team that ha no chris godwin no mike evans .
and no running back .
buckeer he serviceable .
he no whats his name ?
rashad white .
is that his name ?
he serviceable but come on .
how much of a falcon are healthy ?
how much other cream go color worth ?
i know thats what we are wearing today .
look at the point .
here the point where i am trying to make. . there a lot of line out there today .
and we said it is scary and weird stuff happens .
but the fact of the matter is that i believe and ive looked at all of them is that ninety of these line today are mispriced .
remember we said last week we felt good about a lot of game .
we felt good about some stuff .
this week you are getting buzz sod .
absolutely horror movie. . and the theme in this show will be do not get freddie freeman .
thats what he is baby ?
boy they picked that name pretty nice .
the name is called nightmare .
but this is a show about picking game .
we will do our best for you .
you mentioned quickly you used the word mispriced .
tell everybody what you mean by mispriced .
for the people thats not sure what you mean there .
how did this line for tampa bay get bet down ninety point ?
because nothing changed for them .
besides they are wearing creamsicle colored jersey and they are at home .
to be quite honest this is a tampa bay team that ride high and low on emotion .
and if i found out evans and godwin were gone i know it is nose to the grindstone but i think id have a couple of beer all week .
we are at home honey .
send the kid with their babysitter .
me and worfs have to sit down .
yeah i am talking about mayfield .
me and worfs got to sit down and have a couple of beer and figure this out .
yeah. . i am and i do not know if that happened or not but the mispricing is the idea of a team being worth a certain point .
a certain point value and then shaving you by fifty to seventy point .
and it is every word of that .
i am going to mention that time and time and time again because it is your money it is not theirs .
and i got a little theory on this now. . all .
you used the perfect word misprice this week .
when your bet do not work out to where you can make money you can not do it .
my theory here is in the last twenty year they are the first five week of this year football season .
it ha been the worst betting time for the public .
all the team that the public ha been on ha been loser .
the worst the worst the worst in the last twenty year .
nobody except for vega ha won money due to first five week .
last two week now the public ha cleaned up almost every game ha hit for the last two week .
the public ha cleaned up cleaned up vega the last two week .
all your sport book everybody ha taken loss except for the public .
my theory is since vega sport book ha taken a huge loss these last two week let recoup some of our money back this week .
well throw them a bone or two .
well give them back to them next week but this week we need to make some of our money back .
i what ?
you and i work separately .
we talk throughout the week but we work on game separately .
and the first thing when i came out with you is i went this this the whole week is mispriced and you went thats crazy that you even said that because we work separately .
it is not we come up with this idea together and we give it to you guy .
we are not in a production room .
jack and i have a five minute talk before we hit live and we go live .
we do this raw .
what you hear what is all live reaction .
there nothing rehearsed .
we do not talk about what we are going to do .
and greg said i still look up there in pennsylvania florida .
thing we know player we know all the stuff .
and i am i am telling you i am begging you to be careful this week .
i am begging you you do not want to be cortez on a phone and ninety four month on our fastball .
the raven the brown ?
let talk about that game next .
yeah i got a little thought on this game by the way .
i thought you might .
the raven are negative .
they are giving seven and a half over and under is forty four and a half .
three sixty raven brown are plus two eighty five .
jack do you your raven here or seven and a half ?
thats a lot .
give me i want the money line on the brown again .
money line on the brown is plus two eighty five .
thats insane .
yeah thats insane .
that should be a plus four hundred spot .
he say we should be good now .
i know before we were lagging a little bit we should be good to go .
course they are doing that to u bomb .
stream yard .
stream yard ha screwed u . but well find the best we can .
we are the best. . let me get back to that .
thats my price .
i got that game .
that game miss price too .
the brown havent won anything .
now theyve gone .
are they going to a better quarterback ?
we lost a wide receiver .
hasnt done anything all year .
and you got the map plus two seventy five you said .
is that the price on it ?
i wa able to bring it back up .
it is that two eighty five .
yeah two eighty five .
that should be much higher for my dollar .
it should be baltimore .
i am smashing everybody .
and by the way this is where you guy got to look at this too. . it is plus two eighty five .
and yet the point that you are getting keep getting shaved .
this started off at a nine and a half point spread .
i wrote it down this morning .
i have it circled now .
i have plus eight circled which mean i the eight point .
by the way now they are shaving you down to two seventy five or they are shaving you down to two seventy five and seven and a half .
seven and a half .
see what they are doing .
do not let them do this to you .
do not you dare let them do this is the perfect week .
by the way if you a team if you a game to live bet hold your money on the side and wait for the market to be for you .
i am i am going to when we finish this i am going to circle a couple of game and i am going to look at them .
but the game went up to eight and a half .
yeah thats what should be .
yeah jump to a point and the money line went up to plus one back down .
thats not hurt .
i wanted that eight and a half bad .
thats fine .
they can give me those liar .
you stay away from this .
me personally i think i am going to be on the brown .
i have a feeling it is up back up to eight .
i have a feeling james is going to backdoor cover this .
i i have we listen we always say do not go about your gut feeling go by the stats go by this go by that .
this is one of those game that with the number and my gut everything to me is pointing that the brown are going to cover .
i see james screwing them at the end of the game to covering covering u . can i ask you the worst ?
the whats the not the worst defense in the league but whats the worst passing defense in the league ?
i would have to say it is pretty bad .
dallas is this pretty bad by by but by what you are saying it is going to be one of these two team .
i know the raven doesnt have a good pas defense either .
they are susceptible .
i know humphreys is pretty decent but he commits a lot of penalties. . it is the baltimore raven and it is not because they lack talent .
it is because that defense lack discipline .
that should have been pretty easy ?
but what mayfield did wa make sure he did not throw to godwin .
and they scored the buccaneer scored twenty one point after losing evans .
how i am going to tell you how the baltimore raven in their scheme got confused a couple of time and he hit wide open player .
absolutely wide open player .
yes they had some interception but let be honest the one interception .
that wa a fantastic play by humphrey and humphreys been league for a little while .
even baker alluded to he did not he shouldnt have thrown that ball. . james winston ha a live ball lady and gentleman that arm ha been warming up for week .
he got but he doesnt have he been he going to play today with all the receiver he practice with .
thats with the mari cooper .
he did not practice with the number one .
he practiced with the number two .
and if anybody remembers james winston winston he is not afraid to sling it .
hell throw in a triple coverage .
he a monster .
ill tell you what baltimore coming off of what they beat cincinnati and they beat tampa .
it is going to be a trap game for them .
this could very be a trap .
you can absolutely .
i love betting cleveland to win this game .
i thought about taking the money line at plus three hundred and twenty .
you could make some money .
i the plus eight now .
my listen i know we want to hurry up in place a bit .
i sat there and i went i the home team .
i the home team .
i did that in every single game today .
i the home team .
i the home team .
you guy could say it with me .
i the home team .
i the home .
and then when i got to this game i went i do not know if i the home team because i am the public .
do not be the public bet the team that or what what what team to take what game take the most gut to put your money on line today ?
put it on there .
go for it .
he wa not he did not have that team looking good .
whats the running joke about james winston ?
desean watson hid behind closed door and did all of his misdeeds. . james winston walked up to the line stole crab leg and walked out in front of your face .
that dude got .
i am saying by the way there were donor there .
they would have been hey james do you want some crab leg ?
here have some crab leg .
they are yours .
he ha nothing to lose .
why wouldnt he go out and sling it ?
he ha nothing to lose this game except for possibly getting himself another contract next year .
is behind closed door making ditty deal .
he is .
thats what he doing. . james winston steal your wife and girlfriend in front of you .
come over here .
no i this feel i talked myself into it .
sometimes i could do this .
i am taking cleveland. . all .
i am taking cleveland with the point .
i ill even take it with the seven and a half but i am loving to eight .
i wish i wa on it more with the nine and a half .
got jack said it opened that .
maybe we should talk about baltimore a little bit .
get these line down .
guy i know they are listening .
next on the docket we got the i could believe .
i do not those .
i am not going to bet that game but i think the buck will win today .
i am not paying game on a price. . i am not full .
you think that they have still have enough on offense to give it to the falcon .
here what ill here what i want to say .
the falt usually you split. . usually in division split .
mm . . tampa bay looked fine after they lost evans .
they still scored twenty one point ?
scheme stayed the same .
baker looked comfortable .
the wide receiver that were there were backup did not get a lot of work with their hand throughout the whole week because obviously it is god one .
let me talk through this ?
i believe that tampa scheme is better than atlanta and let not pretend atlanta played last week because seattle walked up to that ringside event and punched them in the mouth .
the bell did not even start .
thats what happened .
and atlanta they started looking around with hey do not they know where the falcon they did not care ?
and i do think there is a weak softness to the falcon where where is in todd bowl could smile to your face and tell you you are benched .
hey he filled through an interception three week ago and it wa one of his first and he looked at me .
he go do you think that wa a good pas ?
thats keep that up .
yeah i think tampa even the series with atlanta .
and i think they know it which is why this game got mispriced that. . i know .
but yeah it is one of those game that yeah i am baffled when i know the injury on the box how it is only that to begin with plus one and a half .
but i am going to tell you .
this is not in this .
let me talk you guy through this a little bit better ?
liam cohen who the offensive coordinator for for the tampa buccaneer this is not his first rodeo with baker having no tool .
they were at the ram together when it wa ben scoronic and a bunch of ups driver .
yet they still mustered averaged a game two hundred and thirty five yard and two touchdown .
he know how to get it .
it is going to be it is going to be it is going to be bucky irving .
it is going to be i think you are going to see rashad white maybe not play a lot of running back snap .
maybe he play in slot a little bit. . i do think he going to get some time on the field .
you are going to have sean tucker by the way fantastic walk on off of syracuse ?
he a bowling .
he maurice jones drew light. . bounce off the guy bowling ball ish ?
you are going to see more play that .
you are going to see you are going to see cade and and sterling shepard because mayfield know both of them very .
there going to be choice route over the middle .
i think this scheme that lee and cohen and baker mayfield put together can survive losing tremendous talent .
thats what i am saying .
all . . i get what you are saying .
i i i am staying away from that game .
that ha sucker written all over it .
next we got the tennessee titan at the detroit lion .
this is the largest spread of the week .
tennessee is at plus five hundred money line .
a lot of point man .
a lot of point .
i am going to make the i am going to build a bridge here ?
and the way i am going to build a bridge is is baseball. . we are in the world series now .
obviously everybody know thats the two best team in baseball .
otherwise they wouldnt be here .
and the bridge that i am building is to the tennessee titan because i watched a will levis interview and and i understand he ha looked bumpy in some spot this year but they sold his best receiver to kansa city .
and i know he going to try and make the best of it but he know that they are seller .
there no way the titan will win today .
and by the way there no way but but i am this went up to twelve and a half now .
because they are listening to u baby .
thats how i feel .
i do not think listen they are not even going to be televising this game in detroit .
it is unwatchable .
twelve and a half a lot .
i am not touching the money line negative seven hundred .
you can not thats can not make any money off .
thats the best stash story i can give you there .
it is it is baseball ?
you guy learned something about baseball .
if team selling their best asset it is time to start betting against that team .
find them .
find them ?
for for argument sake let say the white sox were playing against the marlin and the white sox had a very very bad season .
we but the marlin were i know but let say i am not thats not a white sock the hypothetical part is let say the marlin got rid of four player a couple of day before they were playing .
i think thats a great spot to bet the white sox because youll get value .
and maybe yes maybe that would have been win thirty four .
thats the thing i am thinking here .
they werent very good when d half wa there during that going to be they are even worse without himself .
i the titan here too .
twelve and a half is a lot for any team but detroit good .
i find it hard to believe they wouldnt cover here .
i am getting ready for thanksgiving in tennessee .
thats what id be doing .
this is a trap game i think here .
this went down a half a point while we were talking .
or let me get let me get through here real quick .
negative three and a half .
packer are giving three and a half over under is forty nine .
moneyline is a negative one hundred and ninety two packer plus one hundred and sixty six jag .
if this wa over in london id the jag .
london is home field advantage for the jag for some reason .
they keep it over .
but unfortunately they are back at their real home in jacksonville .
and they are going to turn into the regular jag that we have been seeing all year .
i love the packer this game .
i said this could be a trap game and it could be jag coming off of a nice win .
packer coming back from a nice win .
they had i forget who they played last week .
i know it wa a tough .
i remember it wa a tough game for them .
this could be a trap game but i do the jag .
this game did go down a half a point while we were talking .
packer were at giving four .
they are giving three and a half now .
i it more at three and i do three and a half .
if it drop to three be all over it .
other than that i personally would to .
i would to tease this game .
and i want to tease this game with another game .
that we will talk about later .
well put a pin in that .
put that up there for a tease for another team and well go over that on jack .
who do you here jack ?
the packer beat the texan .
thats who it wa .
thats who it wa .
the texan .
yeah that wa a nice hard fought win by them .
one last second field goal correct ?
yeah. . we do not even have to watch the super bowl this year ?
the packer will be in it .
and itll be the chief and itll be love my home ?
and state and commercial everywhere .
and except team get up these alternate jersey .
and i do not think it is much the team .
i think it is the owner are hey it is alternate jersey day .
a lot of the game are at home .
i believe that these alternate jersey are college football homecoming or whiteout game .
. . doe that make any sense to anybody ?
whiteout game .
what they do is they proof a game for the team to win .
thats what they do .
regardless of the team coming in there and i understand that there all these game are not fixed .
thats fine .
you could you can eat those bag of chip but i am going to tell you now a thing progress official get moved into different game for different team .
is not that correct greg ?
you always hear about about rest being moved from here to here .
one ref doesnt perform a certain way in this game .
they are being moved off the next game to be replaced by another ref .
all the time .
and if you guy do not believe in that i want you to go talk to sam darn about that safety face mask .
thats what id you to do .
because that wa a home game for the ram .
and by the way when minnesota started competing the flag started flying .
i havent seen that much laundry in a laundromat on a sunday. . and it is because they were at home against the ram .
and i know some of you guy do not to subscribe to that but it is true. . yeah .
with that being said green bay wore their alternate jersey last week .
and team coming off an alternate jersey win have a losing record .
i that stat. . they have a losing record ?
because everything that wa put into them being able to sell that jersey to fan wa put in that houston wa never going to win that game .
by the way houston had alternate jersey night the week before did they win ?
yeah they did .
and then they lost .
see what we are doing here .
it is very important to know this .
how do you that ?
and i said this very very could end up being a trap game for for green bay .
but all all all my logic point to green bay all your point make sense .
our viewer have to they have to decide who they are going to go with .
next week guy i want you to put in the comment .
let u know who you went with with this game .
i definitely be taking the packer this game .
i do the packer here but i could see very easily how this could be a trap game and the jag could walk up .
they could walk away with the win .
those packer feel a ninety four mile an hour fastball .
they are playing great ball .
they are playing one of the best team the best team in nfc not one of the best team the best team in nfc .
public owned by the way .
is it a week to destroy the public ?
it is .
it is .
it is .
now to this game .
this game .
philadelphia eagle at the cincinnati bengal .
eagle are getting two and a half over under forty seven and a half .
eagle are at plus one hundred and twenty moneyline .
bengal are at negative one hundred and forty two .
a little bit about this game .
eagle have not scored the only team in the nfl to that have not scored in the first quarter .
eagle have not .
cincinnati a bad a you want to say their defense is they do not give up the long play .
a little food of thought there .
those two little stats .
because the eagle do they live off those long play .
they live off of them .
those long pass to aj brown devonte smith ?
. . i believe in i think a lot of this could be live betting and trying to get your spot bet your spot this week ?
we talk all the time .
i do not love cincinnati two and a half .
i did all week and then i went thats easy .
thats easy .
everyones going to be on that. . i think that that line should switch to the opposite side .
it should be philly minus two and a half .
this is the trick. . and you said i love that you said this because it wa it wa a light coming down in my room .
you said philly hasnt scored a first quarter touchdown .
here what i want you guy to do .
i want you to wait for philly to score their first first quarter touchdown .
see how we did that ?
and then i want you to bet cincinnati bengal getting five and a half because thats whats going to happen .
exactly whats going to happen .
thats exactly whats going to happen .
cincinnati is going to get five and a half after philly go up seven nothing. . you guy are going to get the value you deserve and the bengal are going to lose by three .
all your friend will be throwing their tv in the street while you are collecting at the i think thats the way you play this .
i it is a tough game to pick .
it is it is tough point .
if i am getting if i am getting five and a half with the bengal i am taking it all day .
even still you have chase brown .
they still have their pretty good tight end .
who pretty athletic .
i still them .
it is not a favorite .
no if they are getting five and a half .
no i want point with them .
i want point with them .
you said it should be flip flop .
i know i know vega doesnt say that it is this anymore .
back in the day when you bet the home team pretty much vega always gave them a three point there off the bat your negative three .
bengal are at home at two and a half negative .
id say not the vega love the eagle .
it is a little bit .
it is they are they are someone telling you to jump in the water and vega is going a toe .
put a toe in .
a cold though .
it look bluer than it is supposed to be .
i do not see any steam in that water .
say vega all over this with the eagle .
if you guy want to bet with our with our theory this week you take the eagle .
if you want to bet smart wait for the eagle to go up by seven .
jack said hopefully they do get their first quarter touchdown go up by seven .
it the point flip flop on you .
i think thats a great bet .
i would love it .
and and it wa that statistic that you mentioned thats why we do this guy and he floated it out there and went what did you say ?
mm . . and it is sometimes sometimes youll hear it from u . sometimes youll hear it on tv but that what did you say moment ?
and once you get that feeling in your gut it is not breakfast that you need .
it is the it is the money from your bank count to bet on the game is what you need .
and then you put it back in your bank account and you get a bigger breakfast .
there you go .
what we are saying is wait on this game live .
hold off .
hold off on your money .
see what see if see if this go the way that we said said doesnt do not touch it .
you did not lose out on anything .
therefore you are good .
what we are saying is wait on this one .
put it down .
there you go .
we got the colt over houston texas .
yeah over in theapolis colt at houston texas .
colt are at plus five over under is forty five colt are at plus one hundred and eighty five .
texan are at negative two hundred and twenty five .
whats that ?
you did it again. . in the philly game you mentioned a fantastic stat .
and then now what you did is is by accident you went colt over to texan and then you swan then you went back to what it wa .
thats because i wa thinking i do the colt at plus five here .
whats interesting is the colt always play the texan within three .
i wa i wa going to say they play them tough every single time no matter who under center who on the team .
yeah i i i do i the colt here .
i think richardson look better and better and better .
i houston got a good front line on defense but they make mistake in the secondary .
and thats i keep saying it but it is all he know how to do .
richardson can not move defense but he can throw it ninety yard .
alec pierce one of the prop bet thats been heavy today ?
on the on the farm guy is alec pierce will catch a twenty five yard pas .
alec pierce is going to catch a bomb today .
he catch bomb and and again thats what he good at .
and and i i yeah give me indy with the point .
i i yeah. . what wa that game that i said i liked to tease with ?
now if you want the money line wa that the green bay game ?
hold on .
i drafting is timed out on me .
i know you could take houston on the money line here though .
i think houston going to win this game .
that thats that wa my thing .
i do houston this game but i what i would to do is do my tea .
here we go with green bay. . and with houston .
if anybody is new to this tease you take two or more team two to three .
i do not know if they allow any more than three team .
but you take at least two team for the game start .
if a game start you can not tease .
and then you get six point to your favor .
if i am taking houston i would be getting a plus one point to my favor .
and if you already think houston is going to win thats there .
it is gold .
and then green bay id to remember i said i green bay but i them more at three than i do three and a half .
ill be getting two and a half here instead of giving three .
ill be getting two and a half .
thats what i will be doing .
ill be take ill be teasing green bay and and detection .
i wanted to throw that in there .
i had a couple of tease built into this houston game .
my point is i houston to win this game period since i already havent built into two tease that i am doing .
normally i wouldnt do that .
normally thats not all negative two hundred and twenty five .
you are not making too much off of that .
you are making maybe half of your money .
thats not bad .
it is not bad .
it feel a lie though .
whats that ?
the five still feel a lie at a minus two hundred and twenty five .
thats it is minus one hundred and seventy five bill in case you guy are wondering .
for indie score the first touchdown two and then you can live bet that .
a ten ten you are winning four and forty four cent on a ten bet .
you are not even gaining half your money .
look what they have done to u . you put fifty down you win seventwo hundred and twenty two .
you are winning twenty two and twenty two cent .
i to tease personally .
thats what ill be doing .
but anyways we both houston in this game .
next game we got the jet at the patriot .
jet are at negative two hundred and eighty or sorry two hundred and ninety five ninety eight on the money line .
and patriot at plus two hundred and forty on the money line .
seven a lot for a division game .
yeah it is .
and the patriot are quietly playing pretty good .
he he not making the stupid decision .
youd see how deficient they are a a team talent wise .
but you said they are playing competitive football .
i still win jet though .
i do not the jet at seven though .
here what you could do. . you could take you could take the jet on the money line .
look at guy you are going to have to take chance today .
i i do not i do not mean to say that but you are going to have to take chance .
thats the way it is going to be .
i think you could take the two team that have underperformed this year together .
i think you could take the jet and the jaguar on the money line .
i think you could .
i think you could take the jet .
yeah you could take the jet and then the jaguar getting three and a half .
i think the jet if the jaguar lose today the laundry will fly in their favor .
the most they lose by is three .
they called trevor lawrence the prince and the golden child before he ha done anything .
there a reason why folk and i do not care that and they do not care that sam darnold and all these other quarterback have quarterbacked better than him .
then you take the jag with the point and take the jet with the money line .
yeah i love that because because again evan ingram getting reincorporated into this offense ha been big for jacksonville .
i thats who i would put together and feel comfortable with .
the over in that game too .
forty nine .
i think a lot of point are going to be scored .
fifty twoish .
i think it get around there .
yeah yeah absolutely .
i the over in that game .
jack gave you a nice little parlay there to do .
neither one of u the patriot in this game .
i said they are playing competitive football .
could they cover this game ?
yeah they could .
i do not see it but they could .
thats why you take the money line or tease it with another team .
get six point towards your favor .
yeah yeah we already yeah we already went over the what game ?
what game would go over ?
what about if you tease the jet and the buccaneer ?
the jag and the buccaneer ?
yeah no no the jet and the bucs .
the jet you would be youd be giving one and the buccaneer youd be getting seven and a half .
getting seven and a half .
yeah the thing with that though it is you you said you the box .
i know but that game either going to go the way i said or they get absolutely smoked out of the building .
i personally this is what you do then take the take the take the jet tease it down to one and then the dolphin tease that down to where you are getting to .
yeah you could do that .
thats the next game we are at by the way .
cardinal are at plus four over under forty six and a half .
money line .
cardinal are at plus one hundred and sixty four .
dolphin are at negative one hundred and ninety eight .
i love love love the dolphin here .
i said this last week how much i the dolphin .
i them more this week with tua back .
i briefly told you before why i this team why i this game .
but let me reiterate it is that tuas back .
therefore mcdaniels and tua are going to have to turn the page over the most disastrous month this team had in a couple year .
theyve been the worst team in the nfl probably for the last month .
i hasnt been able to do nothing .
i think mike mcdaniels is going to pull out all the stop on this game with tua back .
every bag of trick that they have their back are against the wall .
they do not win this game they are done .
yeah i all that .
obviously i said weird stuff happens in the halloween window .
one of the most famous magician ever harry houdini died on halloween .
people do not know that harry houdini used to have obviously he wa a locksmith and he did magic and stuff that .
but in between road gig he wa able to he wa good at taking punch .
he used to let people punch him in the stomach for money .
and what happened is he let a kid punch him three time on that day and pay him .
and it ruptured something in his stomach .
and he died on the road .
and i mentioned harry houdini in this halloween window because the greatest magician now is coming back .
tua is not this magnificent talent. ?
he not .
but he run the mike mcdaniel magic the best .
he the magician that play with the deck of card best. ?
and now that he back you are going to see why it take certain quarterback to run that rock party .
he not the most talented guy but he a good magician .
is a good magician .
he get the mechanic and he get the machine working the best .
it is the same offense .
exactly the same offense .
and you almost want a guy to be a good magician but he doesnt have to be .
the greatest athlete is not going to make the magic look a good .
my one question here is a i think that i think tua it is not a question statement .
tua is a better magician than justin herbert is a quarterback .
and arizona i am saying that because because the charger had an opportunity to put arizona away last week justin herbert couldnt find five yard .
i think he ha a little bit .
follow me because you got the same coach too .
i think he got a little bit of a kaepernick problem .
i know you guy hate him but kaepernick wa good for fifteen to twenty five yard .
rocket dead on five yard .
i am going over their head going into the ground .
i remember all of it .
justin herbert reminds me much of him .
there no touch on the ball .
certain quarterback ha that touch .
they might not have the strongest arm in the world or anything that but they have touch on the ball .
and sometimes thats all you need .
you do not need that ninety five mile an hour fastball .
he threw it six yard past palmer last week and all they needed wa a couple yard and he hardbought went nut for a pas to ference .
the fact of the matter is the pas wa embarrassing .
and with all that information thats where i am leaning with you .
the magician is back .
yeah and they havent put together backtoback good week all year .
even back they came and put together backtoback good half .
one half they play good the next half they do not let it know backtoback game .
since the arizona did win last week and miami back is up against the wall you said two of the magician is back .
yeah everything to me point that the dolphin are going to win this .
coming off of a short week .
getting to miami early because we want to get to miami early but the problem with getting to miami early is those club are open late .
i wa going to say there a lot more to do .
thats man .
this is in arizona where everybody go to applebees and hang out .
everyones to sean watson in miami .
thats our one oclock slate guy .
we are on to our four oclock game .
this game here i think is interesting .
buffalo bill at seattle seahawks .
bill are at negative three over under forty five .
bill are at negative one hundred and sixty two .
moneyline seattle at plus one hundred and thirty six .
everything point that the bill should run away with this .
do not understand why .
but unfortunately if anybody ha watched the bill this year they have beaten up on bad team and barely squeaked high against good team .
josh allen ha not thrown a pick yet this year either .
he ha not thrown a pick .
thats true .
but there only been one quarterback in the past ten year to have a nine for thirty stat line .
now is it josh allen or is it geno smith ?
because most people answered and said geno smith .
and theyd be wrong .
the answer is josh allen .
nine for thirty .
and they went out and found him a number one wide receiver after that because stefan diggs barked online and said josh doe need a number one .
and it is true .
by the way he hasnt thrown any interception because he hasnt taken any chance because there no receiver that he belief to take a chance with .
now i understand that he got a mari cooper but the seattle secondary is good .
they are real .
yeah they are .
they are very good .
i think the bet that you can make on this game are josh allen throw an interception. . i think he think he ha one on one with keon coleman .
he over the top get his first interception but it is good news because he get that one on the way .
sometimes it is good to get one on your way .
i think this game is real real tight .
gino smith a good quarterback .
i do not want to touch this game .
yeah i am not touching it myself .
i think i think seattle is going to get a strong dose of james cook .
buffalo is smart because thats the one thing you can do against seattle .
you can run on them .
yeah seattle best and is ed oliver playing today ?
yeah i do not know .
that could be a huge thing too because walker could run all over end up running all over that defense .
itll be embarrassing .
yeah metcalfe had a great game last week .
there is no very could be going to seattle way .
it is in seattle .
there is no metcalfe this game .
there is .
is it ?
no metcalfe this week .
i buffalo a little bit more than i think i buffalo a little bit more .
again all thing equaled buffalo go up to seattle .
it look impressive .
but understand no metcalfe when you guy make that bet .
again i am not touching this .
this is a game .
if i had to lean one way id be leaning towards buffalo .
metcalfe is a big big big missing piece for that offense .
if seattle .
i want to say this too .
after this week you do not have to keep jackson smith nijigba on your fantasy team ever again .
he not a number one .
no he wasnt drafted to be a number one .
but espn keep lying to people and ranking his statistic high .
he hasnt hit the benchmark once .
jackson smith nijigba ha the same projected point over the past couple week a george pickens and george pickens ha had me with better leg throwing him the ball .
what are you guy crazy ?
jackson smith nijigba ha never dominated a game once .
what are we doing ?
yeah i get it .
i looked at them too much because i wa never i never wanted to have a i did myself .
there wa never there wa never a need to have them on my team .
hey you can rent .
you are here .
you are here .
we are all going to listen .
it is a can not take it .
i will not take it .
neither one of u like this game at all .
we are both leaning towards buffalo .
it sound .
next we got the saint a a charger .
saint are at plus seven over under is forty one .
saint are at plus two hundred and sixty money line .
charger are at negative three hundred and twenty five money line .
thought here .
this is one of those mispriced guy .
it is .
it is .
i look at i know that this the first of all this is insane. . the saint got blown out .
the charger lost .
the charger did not look great in that loss .
let not they did not a couple overthrow couple flag they started shot to win that game .
no they shot a shot .
they could have won that .
but the saint got absolutely smashed in all facet of the game. . and it is only minus seven because they do not think the charger can pull away from anybody .
and but it is three hundred and fifty or three hundred and twenty five now money line wa three hundred and fifty when i wrote it .
i it feel i am not putting all my money on the line to make a hundred buck .
i do not mind putting money out there but this should be two hundred and sixty five .
i am barking at the odds maker because they know i am .
therell be somebody knocking at my door in twenty minute all of a bullet in my head .
i do not care because i told you guy the truth .
mm. . i can rest on my laurel head to my casket knowing that i told you guy that this should be a two hundred and sixty five and do not bet it .
let them keep their money .
another miss priced misrepresented .
do not throw a ninety four mile an hour fastball that i am still on that .
do not throw a ninety down the plate to a major league professional .
these are major league professional by the way major league vega line guy .
they will take your money .
they will have you living outside and getting divorced .
thatll thats whatll happen .
i am i am this is one of those game .
miss priced .
all the one that are mispriced leave them .
i do not too many point here .
this is a game that i would take the money line in a parlay somewhere .
thats about it .
thats about it .
we are both not touching this game .
ill take the charger and the money line and parlay it with two other team to make up a parlay for myself today .
what i am going to do ?
here what i am going to do .
and and again live betting .
live betting today. . have your conviction going in live bet today .
i am giving much advice today. . have your conviction because i want them not to lose .
i want you to i want you to pick game that you liked in the beginning of the day .
and then i want you to see how that went .
and then i want you to look at four thirty game and think if you were even close .
if you are having a day you are having a day brother .
but if you are not i am saying you can get absolutely wiped out here .
a quick parlay that i charger jet and texan all money line three team parlay charger jet .
charger jet texan all money line .
i love that bet .
parlay those three team .
there you go .
i always we always to give you something guy .
but yeah thats one that i liked that i am going to be doing myself .
yeah i liked that one .
do you could you can play that one .
it feel today one going to be you are going to play one too many .
and thats why i am limiting myself this week .
limiting my listen guy i showed you my bet last week from the previous week .
yeah you were ever you i am everywhere .
i put many bet out there .
i you guy are going to look at my bet sheet next week and be holy shit you were .
you you barely bet this week .
but where i am betting thats where i am going to i am betting strategically .
you still there with u ?
some type of interference .
it is still breaking from that .
talk about the game and let see what we have here .
trying to fix the audio here guy .
i can hear you but it is it is it is tough to hear .
it is a break up .
i can hear it .
i can hear it .
you hear it ?
i hear it .
still still tough .
it is whatever that thing is .
i think maybe i need to get a new one .
a blue i think .
well stick with it .
what do we got ?
weve got all these talk ?
you can look at that on the other side .
you can see the all what do we got ?
weve got all these talk ?
you while greg get everything straight now and over there .
we got carolina and weve got denver carolina and denver we got a here what i love fantasy farm sport .
we talk about fantasy sport all the time i think if you are looking for a little bit of running back this week ?
what are you ?
they are beautiful place to visit but at the end of the day they are not good .
they are not good football team but they are nice town ?
i think you agree .
there not a lot there ?
ive got two check mark by denver .
the real i am gon na wait on this one .
well talk about the non game ?
greg still get thing straight now over there can not see shes versus the la vega raider the raider are getting nine and a half .
they feel they are down and out .
look at the same thing we were talking about miami the arizona could have been there to party all week .
ive got taking the la vega raider nine and a half today .
i think it is a real close call for kansa city and kansa city win but barely thats what i have .
i got nine and a half good at la vega raider moving on well talk about the late game because i know if we get greg back .
hell want to talk about certain game .
i want to leave some some thought there for him .
ive got the giant .
ive got the steelers thirty six and a half and the giant are getting six point traveling to pittsburgh and i know we all watched that game last ?
no we all watched that game we understand that we understand we understand that the pittsburgh steelers should absolutely destroy they have to destroy but these two team work each other do not they ?
think about it .
when you think about the steelers and you think about the giant they want to do the same thing both of them want to run the ball both of them need to run the ball and i understand that russell wilson looked good .
did the jet quit last week the jet did quit a little last week they quit we got to be honest the jet quit and thats if they quit but we know they did and pittsburgh broke their back .
i think the giant are gon na fight hard here thirty six and a half there not a lot of room at thirty six and a half thirty six and a half there not a lot of room at thirty six and a half for six point .
i and i again i think the giant every single player is fighting for their nfl career there they want to take part .
we all watched it .
he started throwing the game away and i do not think daniel jones will throw the game away .
all not quite yet but we are still working on greg there all game one about one whoop can you hear me ?
yeah yeah i want to talk about the chicago bear the chicago bear are out of hibernation this winter they are playing against the washington commander the washington commander they have done a good job they have pairing the the quarterback together .
washington defense ha gotten a little bit better but i do not think they are chicago chicago came into this year havent worked hard to even get win last year and in their ability to win they leaned on themselves .
i think chicago is the better football team i maybe not necessarily the best quarterback that i think could be true jaden daniel healthy is the better quarterback .
are you with u ?
i do not that kyle shanahan locker side talk and all this other garbage that go along with it .
i do not that .
i think what we need to do is we need to live with the fact that brock purdy is not perfect .
who care ?
who care that he not perfect ?
they are playing against your dallas cowboy and america team it might be but i do not think they are america team .
you can not run they do not run it very .
you need to be able to jerry jones made comment this week about derek henry about how he wouldnt fit their offense who wouldnt fit their offense ?
why would you ?
he not gon na fit your offense .
can not you build a more productive house ?
instead of living in the same one that you are in you could build a more productive he derek henry you brought him mccarthy because he this great offensive mind if he wa such a great offensive mind couldnt he incorporate a great running back ?
you need a guy to run the whole machine and thats not mccarthy now jerry jones understands that but he stuck he got to say whatever he gon na say to keep his sponsor the fact the matter is he not even the best .
he not even the best pony in dallas anymore not even the best pony no best pony the best team is houston texas can you hear me ?
no whats whats going on i have no idea i sound you are calling me from space .
i i think the 49ers are a better football team than the catalan cowboy i think the cowboy can play because the 49ers secondary is not very good it is not i do not make the rule .
yeah this is good .
yeah 49ers secondary is not very good but i think dallas is competitive here this is the way and i think this is fairly how you could see it happen ?
we are in san francisco .
we are not in dallas not in dallas and i think the four and a half that dallas is getting it is one of those that feel good feel good to be getting four and a half a a cowboy .
it feel thats a line .
you will not look a stooge you do not want to look a stooge do not get your eye poked out wheres that camera ?
there it is .
do not get those eye poked out believe in what san francisco ha there they have a good running game at jordan mason .
i can not spend my money .
i think we can end on this day bill parcells say you are what your record is and i think the 49ers have showcased the fact that they are not the team that we found and saw last week .
what i would do is i would absolutely bet on the 49ers today and i would leave the dallas cowboy the second best team in dallas or the second best team in texas alone take those 49ers on the money line guy be very careful today .
you want to be very careful thats what we want to stress to you be very careful with your bet .
you do not have to take everything .
you do not even have to play this week enjoy your family .
enjoy your food .
ventson van gogh people told him you can not be a great painter you only have one ear .
what he said ?
you are now listening to sip and sport a philly sport talk morning show with chris kj and dalt proudly powered by three hundred and two bird .
let take it to the show .
good morning .
welcome to another episode of sip and sport .
a we always do we will give you guy that prerecording disclosure .
we are prerecording this friday night october 25th .
on that saturday your flyer will be playing and we have no clue what the hell is going to happen in the sixer game .
well figure all that out here in a second .
but kj chris how are we doing fella ?
i know the flyer have sucked a of late but i am going to my first game .
it is i guess it is today since we are prerecording .
i am excited for that .
i am going to see mitch kauffs first regular season game .
my first time seeing mitch kauff regular season .
i am excited for that .
but coming back we got back from that .
that eagle wa jet giant .
why am i saying jet ?
gain from last week and flying high from that still for sure .
that wa fun .
that wa a blast .
we had the time of our life over there and met live stadium .
chris wa there .
adult wa there .
jack it wa it wa a great for gizzle .
it wa a great freaking time for sure .
and we even got to introduce mikey d to chris and adult and jack and everybody .
and that wa that wa awesome .
i think it wa it wa fun to can up on a giant fan .
we did not we did not mess with them too much though .
that wa a good thing because the eagle did the rest for u . yeah .
the game spoke for itself .
both of you guy said which we will react to that here in a second and everything else a we do .
but if you guy are in here be sure to it up share it up all that good stuff .
because when we are pre recording those little thing help .
they help u to prevent from coming out slow the philadelphia plot .
see but chris ill let you go ahead and take it first .
i am going to be there today .
what what are you looking forward to with the flyer ?
what have you not liked with the flyer ?
what doe this team need to do a a whole ?
they are a young team .
i think thats the biggest thing .
you got a kid who what you got you got two guy one who eighteen one who nineteen who are not your the face of the team but they are two young building block .
and it is a younger team than weve had in year past .
and they are going to struggle at time .
it is it is how it is .
i think we got a little bit of a tease with the flyer last year the way they were able to come out hot and look they were going to make the playoff .
it is i think weve got to bear in with this team .
and yeah it is going to be a long season .
they are not going to be a great team but you are going to it is going to be exciting to see these young guy mitch coving .
he had a two goal game the one night .
and luchenko who is eighteen barely eighteen year old the youngest flyer to ever play .
it is it is a different it is a different season .
and it is going to be a it is going to be a in some aspect of long season because i do not see them winning that many game this year .
i thought it might have been a building block year from last year .
they would have snuck into the playoff but they got even younger than they were last year .
well see how they can continue to roll through this year .
but i my expectation are not too high .
and i think thats what make it fun is the expectation are not high .
thats said .
i do not think you could have put it a better way there at the end .
thats what make it fun .
yeah it should be interesting to see what they got .
obviously now they are what are they they are one in five now .
chris they are one in five .
they are going to be two in five .
two in five .
they are going to be .
they are going to be .
speaking of their existence mitch cause having the six goal game .
thatd be awesome .
and then hopefully after sunday when i am at the game on sunday theyll be a game .
whats up ?
thatll be insane .
i think thats going to be a great way to go .
well be three in five .
well be climbing back up on the standing .
thatll be good to see .
but but yeah a chris wa saying piggyback off that very young team a lot of inexperience .
a lot of guy were trying to figure out what the role what their role is and what what their job is .
i think this team ha a lot of growing to do .
and once once everything is the puzzle are in the piece .
i do feel that this is going to be a good working oil machine for short but it is going to take time a chris said it is going to take time and you got to be patient .
we were for the for the six year and then it exploded in our face and whatever .
and now it is still exploding in our face .
thats why it is hard for u a philly fan to trust the whole process thing especially a building process .
well see what happens .
i do feel though this will come back and itll be something productive and not something negative .
well going to have to wait and see what happens .
and one more thing before we move on .
mitch cobb is on pace for a point a game now .
he got seven point in seven game for a rookie to have a point a game is it is not unheard of but it is something the flyer i do not think it ever had .
thats one thing to watch out for is can he continue this pace and get a point a game .
he leading the team in goal already .
the guy nineteen year old and showing a ton of flash already .
he here and it is at least i think thats the thing that excites me .
it is almost when we first got in bead with the sixer you could tell that generational type talent wa there and it is already coming to fruition and well see where it go .
for you guy have said for him and jet what the two have already done to turn the organization .
it is it is amazing what a good attitude can do .
you almost want to say to conor baddard hey this is what could have been if you got your shit together but i am happy it worked out the way that it did .
i think it couldnt have worked out better for flyer fan a . but the direction that the organization is headed is refreshing awesome great to see a a fan .
now coming out slow .
chris said it earlier and i want to say it again .
a team with no expectation is the best team to root for and watch because anytime that they do anything you can go crazy because they suck .
we did not know that with the phillies this year obviously .
we knew that a couple year ago when the phillies went to the world series because nobody expected them to .
same thing with the eagle when they won the super bowl in two thousand and eighteen and when they went to the super bowl i guess you could say in two thousand and twenty two nobody .
there something to be said for team in philadelphia that have no business being in a championship being in a championship .
there also something said for i do not know why but first year player or first year thing working out for philadelphia team and them ending up in championship and some guy winning something in their rookie year .
thats still a crazy story for the eagle .
but ill say this about mishkov .
i love the way that he embrace the city too .
i saw i guess he went to the phillies playoff game a couple week back or something and he wa in a parking lot and there this random dude .
he no different than chris or kj or me or somebody thats a diehard flyer fan in the parking lot tailgating the phillies game .
an average dude walk up and he holy shit thats mishkov .
and he yo go phils and mishkov who barely speaks any english in the video is saying go phils and he embracing it .
when somebody that back the city that buy in and theyve only been here a short amount of time it is awesome .
it is great to see .
and speaking of another guy who only been here for a short amount of time but he even said it in his own press conference .
he feel he been here for a while with the way that this team treat him the way that these fan treat him top to bottom .
and i am talking about the king of new york .
no jj segalo not you you motherfucker .
i am talking about the real king of new york .
we did not know what to expect with this game .
we knew that sey kwan wa going to go off .
we did not know which way he wa going to give it to him .
he gave it to him straight .
there were a lot of play both side of the ball that were made but the score the score i think told the story that you needed to know .
the giant had a couple of sack here and there .
ill give them credit where credit due .
but other than that they did not do anything anything game .
offensively they were catastrophe .
the eagle defense wa all over them .
a a fan in the stand it wa great because we were dominating them dominating them .
and a a giant fan they were all demoralized .
that one touchdown to aj brown i saw it in slow motion .
and i want to say shout out with everybody that show u the hospitality there year after year and each other because that wa a pretty fun tailgate that we had going on on sunday and an even better result .
it wa the cherry on top for the drive .
it wa a great time for sure .
and it wa great seeing saekwon honestly get his revenge that he wanted .
and i think if you heard the story beforehand he wa on the team bus .
i heard a story that he wa on the team bus and there wa a bunch of giant fan with a poll that had saekwon barkley giant jersey and they burned it in front of his eye .
and he did not seem fazed by it .
he took that a motivation .
he what ?
i am going to do my job out there .
they are doing that stuff .
obviously theyll seem disrespectful but that mean that they miss me and stuff that because they do .
and it wa ill tell you one thing being at that stadium hearing the horrific i do not know if you guy heard it or not .
and i think it wa only from a couple of people but then i also heard it in general though .
people were booing and they were putting a lot of the hate towards saekwon .
there were jersey that said traitor .
there wa jersey that said snake one turncoat .
something coat or whatever .
jj had to figure out what turncoat meant .
he looked at mikey d. he what doe turncoat mean ?
and mikey d. yeah we do not know what turncoat mean .
thats some paul revere shit .
it is not going to be ashamed of fucking weird as word .
and mikey d. of course he he a turncoat .
and then he told u what turncoat .
a turncoat is a coat you do not want to wear .
and we are .
and we looked it up and sure shit mike wa .
and it is an old way to say traitor but go ahead kj .
there nothing bad about it .
yeah that wa but that wa interesting .
i heard some very vulgar comment about saekwon .
not a a player but a a man .
and it wa it wa all the heat that philadelphia sport fan get .
it wa weve seen it though with new york and it seems they do not get too much heat .
they came to the sexer stadium and got bought a bunch of our gear and they burned it in a pile .
and then obviously i know saekwon leaf but you are putting all the blame on saekwon himself .
but when it wa your gm that screwed the pooch he wa the main reason they were making the wrong guy .
and thats what ticked me off because people he left .
he a traitor .
screw you saekwon .
it is no your gm had a chance to not pay daniel jones .
it showed that you made the wrong decision because daniel jones did not even throw for a touchdown in this game .
heck he hasnt even thrown for a touchdown at metlife stadium this year .
and when the heck in your head did you think it wa any bit of a good idea to be what ?
i am going to give him this much of a contract that he doesnt deserve and not pay your running back .
you do not want to pay a running back sometimes because the running back position it is not a valuable a a quarterback position .
thats the problem .
he not valuable .
i do not see why the heck it is almost when the titan they decided what ?
they are going to take it away .
another bonehead general manager decision by an organization .
and the eagle are a team to find out and they are able to swoop in and get saquon .
who doe the howie for honestly getting saquon here making him feel at home .
and we are making him feel at home with the fan .
and thats great to see because even though there many saquon hater there there were a lot of people there that were supporting saquon and wed love to see him get in the end zone twice .
that wa electric .
that wa it almost felt even though it wasnt a home game you had enough .
it wa a home game .
you had enough eagle fan there to make it feel it wa a home game .
and the one thing i want to say to mac off of your point there were mostly saquon jersey there for eagle fan .
most of the eagle jersey were saquon jersey .
that wa cool to see fire fought with ice .
what with the giant ?
they are going to wear their turncoat jersey or their other giant jersey .
we are all decked out in saquon .
that wa cool to say .
whats up ?
i think the one thing that truly speaks to how great not on the field saquon is but a a person in general is when sirianni went to him and asked him if he wanted to stay in the game he got thirteen yard to tie his career high .
and this wa what the end of the third quarter .
he would have beat that record .
he said let the young let the young dog eat .
that is such a selfless thing .
he could have broke his career high against his former team and he sits back there and what ?
he said what ?
let will shipley get some carry .
thats it is incredible .
not only the player they got but the person they got a . and i think a lot of this stuff with the giant fan it is it is jealousy because they know what he is .
and i feel bad for gisel because he wa out there .
he wa on the verge of tear .
it wa this is a lot .
this wa a lot of giant fan favorite player .
theyve had some bleak year and the one thing they had is a running back who would go in and burst off a big thirty yard run here and there .
ill say kwann did that three time in one game and ran the fastest he ever did in his career against his former team .
to see the way he say kwann wa it is incredible .
i am glad it wa only seventeen carry he had to do .
let keep these carry down .
let keep him healthy .
it is hard to watch that .
and shout out to gisel too .
if he listening to the show we love you man .
thanks for hosting u a always .
but thats got to suck too to see your favorite player go to your .
that wa the one thing that all the giant fan kept saying is he could have picked any other team .
but at the end of the day you got to go to who giving you the best money .
you got to go to who giving you the best opportunity to win a super bowl and say kwann probably looked across the nfc east a long time ago .
i think longer than you guy think and though .
maybe the grass is and metaphorically greener on the other side and being greener .
better turf a . yeah there you go a . but it wa nice to see to the go ahead .
did you want to say something chris ?
do you think that he wanted to get taken out of the game a little bit we did not get hurt on that turf ?
yes i glad that you asked that .
i think that there part of that to it too .
there almost these guy are going ham hardest fuck and i went ham hardest fuck the whole game .
and obviously i proved myself .
it is almost he ha nothing else to prove .
why go out there when they are all playing bully ball looking to kill him looking to hurt him looking to ruin his season not saying they are looking to injure somebody but they are looking to put him on his as which could hurt him .
and i think it wa i think it wa strategic but it wa also selfless .
it wa a combination of the two where it worked out .
i do not think he knew when he did it though that it would be this whole medium thing .
i do not think he knew that at all .
eagle defense though that wa the one thing i want to highlight a . it wa appetizing wholesome whatever word you want to use to describe it .
i had a bunch of them when we were there but it wa great to see a nice eagle complete win and especially defensively .
vic fangio you got to give credit to where credit due .
and he ha had this team playing i think on a whole other level to where theyve been in tune .
they know what the offense is going to run before the offense run it .
and they seem wizard wizard of the game .
they seem technician .
and i havent been able to say that about the eagle defense in at least the season since ganon wa here .
it is very very nice to see that and very refreshing that he got these guy playing top tier ball .
he got these guy doing the thing that they need to be doing and coming in prepared because thats your defensive coordinator job at the end of the day is to make sure your team is prepared .
we all know brian fucking john or i am sorry sean decide did not have anybody prepared .
brian johnson to i guess thats why my brain said that .
but sean decide wa nonexistent a a defensive core .
i do not i do not even know if he talked in a locker room .
i never heard him say anything and i can not remember any of his press conference .
you need somebody that can be that old head .
i know that that wa our beef .
i want to go back to that because we all said it myself especially when vic came here .
we were hypothetically scared of vic because his age and his way to connect with this team .
some of the thing that people were saying brandon graham .
vic he going to be stuck in his way .
but maybe it is a good thing .
maybe vic fangio we thought know what he doing .
and maybe this is his final swanson and it is going to be a benefit for the eagle .
but golly the past two week i think no touchdown allowed or something i saw too which is fucking nut for a defensive coordinator .
and the one thing that vic fangio is doing is is finding a way to make adjustment and get struggling player into a better position .
bryce huff the other day look tremendous .
he looked the player that we signed that we thought we were getting when we signed .
and for him he feel more comfortable out of this stance than the other stance .
and i trashed him for that in our pregame comfort in our pregame podcast .
and what doe he do ?
he go out there and get a sec .
i am glad they are making adjustment and a secondary is playing extremely extremely .
quinion mitchell man he he locked down he he .
malik neighbor is going to be hell over receiver in the nfl .
he already is a hell of a receiver in the nfl .
thats it is incredible what he doing out there .
yeah i know the interception are not there but when you can trust that you can have a rookie out there against legit wide receiver .
it is such a comforting thing .
and the same with cooper degene he been tremendous .
and yeah ive busted on slay for a while but he wa good the other day a . to see these guy starting to gel a a unit now it is good to see .
and hopefully this past rush continues to do what the past rush did this week .
because they they look they are cooking at all aspect .
and even nicoby dean had two sack .
you look every single aspect of this defense defensive tackle defensive end linebacker corner safety .
they were all all over the field on sunday .
and if they can continue to do that you are looking at the top five defense in the nfl if they can hold that up .
now it is the philadelphia eagle .
are they going to hold that up ?
yeah i think it wa an adult wa saying before .
in two week we havent let up a touchdown .
i will say this though we did play against two of the worst team in the nfl .
that is one of the i guess you can .
yes it is one of the obvious point i guess you can say .
but it is still impressive .
i still feel it is because i think they are also using these two game a building block for them to still keep aggressive a a defense .
a chris pointed to a before nacobi dean thats great to see a linebacker getting to sack in this game and this error now .
you do not see too many linebacker getting sack especially with the eagle .
i do not remember ever seeing an eagle get a crazy game of multiple sack that .
he he looked awesome .
he looked the linebacker we wanted him to be .
and hopefully he could keep it up .
i do not know if they are going to keep him going with the blitz again but well see .
vic fangio i think he wa this wa a good two week to test out the defense and see what potential they have and try to see what he can do to help mold this defense into a chris wa saying before and maybe an elite defense .
not saying they are an elite defense because they did play two of the worst offense in the league but this could be a building block for sure .
and it wa cool to see quinn a chris wa saying a quinion mitchell and cooper dizine out there locking down these receiver .
now they are not the best receiver .
malik neighbor obviously a rookie but you got some other guy too wanda robinson who is a who on one of my fantasy team .
he a pretty decent receiver .
he wasnt getting anything at all .
yeah it wa good to see those young guy go at it and keep the keep the fort locked down .
that wa good .
and yeah to see bryce huff .
at first i wa saying this with jack me and jack were at the beginning of the game .
we were trying to study what john not bryce huff .
see i caught myself there adult .
and thats what bryce huff wa doing .
and we noticed that first that he wa jogging .
he wa jogging when he wa going for a blitz and we are this is where it seems he doesnt want to play .
but then i think it wa either in the second quarter or the third quarter .
he went full throttle and i think what chris wa saying before he went in a different stand .
i think vic vanjo said do your stance that you are used to here at metlife stadium .
you are used to do it best and go at the quarterback .
and thats what he did .
and he got a sack .
that wa great to say .
and they looked they looked they looked good .
hopefully they can keep it up .
you got a an offensive line in the bengal which is almost a bad a the giant but they are a little better .
you could try and expose that offensive line .
if they do that thatll be great .
and they can maybe shut down joe barrow this weekend .
yeah i think you guy both pretty much hit the nail on the head with the defense .
moving along now to our sixer .
kj ill let you go ahead and take this one first .
the sixer are playing now .
i havent even looked at the score for an update but it is not looking good from the intro game .
on i guess you could say the season opener on wednesday and bede and george both not playing but whats up with this team man ?
whats going on ?
now they are i believe they are winning .
it say they are winning .
i think it say they are winning twenty seven to twenty six .
it is still early .
this team now is and i hope that they and i know i am saying this a a sixer fan i want them to get fined for what they are doing .
i want them to get fined for the load management crap that they are doing .
they should get fined because you are paying joe and bede this crazy amount of money and it is for him to play not to watch not to manage his injury and everything everything that .
i get what you are trying to do but dude we are paying this guy and it bother me a lot .
it doe a a basketball fan a a fan of who believed in nb and i am starting to not believe in the guy and hopefully i can get that belief back .
i hope we can a sixer fan but it is hard to believe in that when you realize that nb is not hurt now .
they are trying to arrest him now and that doesnt rub me the way at all .
paul george thats a different story .
we saw that he wa playing the preseason .
he injured his it could have been a horrible injury to his knee .
it could have been way more horrific but it is going to be hell be back in i think it said this game and then the next game he should be back in two more game .
well see pg back in the court for the sixer but i though the rotation they have .
i know that they did not have that good of a game against the buck .
i do feel this rotation is deep and i that because we havent had that for a while .
thats the main thing i feel with the sixer .
obviously it did not have a good game but let see what else they can do when they get back and beat and paul george .
let say but i am not happy with the whole load management crap .
i think it is total bull crap to the diehard fan especially the one that paid for the home opener .
expecting that they were going to see and beat and paul george and the team did not tell them till last minute .
that wa screwed up .
i do feel that wa screwed up .
yeah this is the least excited ive been for sixer team in year .
and you guy both know i wasnt the throat on the whole paul george signing .
i did not think it moved the needle at all .
and now you got joel embiid who ramping up to play .
it is what he wa fine when he played in the olympics and they are saying he did not get it hurt in the olympics .
what the hell is he ramping up for ?
whats he not doing in the off season ?
you paid this dude nearly two hundred million over three year .
he not ready to play basketball .
what is going on ?
that this is a joke at this point .
if joel embiids not serious about basketball then why the hell is he on the team ?
i know he a hell of a player .
but why is he not ready ?
it is it is a joke at this point .
and i feel these people who pay money for season ticket should get their money back .
because now you are saying he not going to play back to back .
how many game are you going to play at home ?
you got people paying for season ticket and they are not going to see the best player in the nba for majority of those game for load management .
it is bullshit .
and if he is hurt how do you get hurt ?
it is a whole nother situation here .
and then the sister are probably going to dock draft pick because they do not know how to fucking manage it .
it is it is a bad organization .
they got too much shit going on .
the team want to move to center city now .
it is it is a joke .
josh harris need to sell this damn team already .
go focus on the commander .
get the fuck out of philadelphia .
i am tired of this shit with the sixer .
in mediocrity .
we started this whole process because we couldnt get past the second round .
we still can not get past the fucking second round .
what is going to change here ?
nothing ha changed .
let keep signing aging superstar to act it is going to help .
when i got two aging superstar because i do not know how much longer to own beat going to be able to play .
if he can not play back to back now .
why did you sign into a two hundred million deal ?
they operate on the heart .
josh harris is a joke of an owner in general .
and i agree with chris .
the problem is though he entitled and he doesnt care about the fan at all .
which it is funny though because commander fan are josh harris what a great owner he is .
i am going to tell you this now .
i am going to tell you this now .
he a horrible owner .
obviously he no snyder .
yeah i am going to say thats what we were all about to say .
they had dan snyder to work with before .
yeah he no snyder but he doesnt care about .
he got too many team now .
and obviously the commander are his priority now .
it is his baby .
and the sixer are a number to him .
yeah the sixer are his teenage child .
thats what it is with the sixer that go in his room and play video game .
thats what it is dan .
yeah it is with the sixer it is what the hell is going on every week .
and i havent even watched the game yet .
i will not watch the game tonight .
i might go to a game or two this year maybe .
but i am starting to wonder if maybe it is not the sixer .
if maybe it is not the flyer .
maybe it is well fargo .
because how the fuck are these two team this consistently fucked out this .
they are kjs .
the thing it is funny kj .
i had redheaded stepchild written down on my note .
but the thing i had written down wa the sixer are a cheeto .
at a fancy cheese tasting .
they are out of their own league all the time .
you look at all the other and that wa in regard to all the other philly sport team the flyer .
the eagle .
the phillies .
the eagle and philly specifically .
yeah they havent won the big one in a couple of year .
but at least they get there .
at least theyve gotten there in the past couple of year .
there something to be said for that .
they can not even fucking get there .
they are the little engine that fucking couldnt .
and they are not getting any better .
at this point it is .
i guess what i am trying to say with embiid in this injury thing is you guy are .
there is no injury .
there no problem .
but when i heard nick nurse talk about it the other day i honestly couldnt blame the guy .
because he said it this .
the one thing we havent tried yet with embiid is getting into the playoff healthy .
i think that the sixer are going to slick and slide their way in whatever way they can get embiid into the playoff playing healthy .
if it cost them some money and some fine .
i think that they are all in on winning a championship this year and the top priority for the sixer in winning a championship is making sure joel is healthy .
and i think that by doing this they are looking to protect him because he can prove it during the regular season .
he done that .
a far a how do i feel about that .
it is not not a good product on the court .
it is not a good product for your fan and it is not fair to season ticket holder which is why i do not even want to waste my breath anymore on the sixer .
i will say one more thing though .
i also feel if you do not play them together though a we said before they are not going to have any chemistry .
then when the playoff do come up where the hecks going to be the chemistry .
hopefully these guy paul george and and b can keep some chemistry going somehow and hopefully they are still working on that .
but yeah thats thats thats the problem with it though .
i agree and i feel bad for nick nurse because i feel he the coach for this position and the coach for this team .
but it is embiid is holding him back from being the coach that we wanted for this organization .
but but yeah we could move on from it because taking away kj we are going into cincinnati into the jungle to play the good looking handsome devil himself and joe burrow .
you nervous you excited you combination of the two .
i do feel the bengal have been theyve been slow out the gate .
it seems they havent i think whats their record now .
they are what they two and three now or something that .
i think they are i forget their record .
but they are they are on the slow rate now .
it seems and burrow ha been looking iffy but he also been able to get jamar chase involved .
thats thats a good thing .
and i think we got we got to watch out for that too .
we got to watch out for that .
i heard that t higgins might be questionable .
i do know for the eagle though .
i do not know if you guy heard this dallas goddard will not be playing .
it say that he is not to be playing this weekend .
it seems well well be having calcuttaire and stole out there manning the ship at the tight end position .
it seems but but you have adult you are muted .
i wa going to say something when you were done .
but yeah i think it is it is going to be interesting game .
i predicted this on the show on wednesday .
i think the eagle do keep this close .
i do think they get they sneak the win .
i think they win twenty six to twenty .
i think they somehow win by six point .
and i do not know how but they are going to win .
they are going to take the point this time .
they are going to take the point next year on is going to be very strategic and he going to be smart somehow .
i do not know why i am thinking this but i think they are going to win twenty six to twenty .
now the defense is not going to have that much of a dominant defensive performance they had against the giant .
i think the bengal are going to be a little tougher .
the offensive line is going to be a little tougher .
you will not be seeing those young buck out there getting the i guess you could say the activity that they had last week against the giant with the i guess in the sack margin .
yeah ill say this because i got to be a little bit quicker because we got a wrap up here in a minute .
i am excited for it .
i think it is going to be an entertaining game .
the bengal are notoriously a team that the eagle have struggled against .
we all know it unfortunately but i think that this is going to be a game that jalen hertz play up to .
i wa listening to wip today and a guy called in and he said it and i wa laughing my as off at it because it is true .
and he said something along the line of jalen hertz play up to good competition .
and when he played patrick mahomes when he played josh allen there wa another qb in that list too .
i am drawing a blank on who but he play up to them .
he ha something to prove and he doe .
i think in this game joe burrow being somebody thats highly respected in his draft class somebody that wa taking early .
i think he going to say what i want to show that i want the same level a this guy .
i want to show that athletically i can do the same thing that he can do .
now is he on the same iq on the same playing level maybe not much but doe he have the better team .
hell to the yeah .
doe joe burrow have an aj brown or saquon barkley or devonte smith .
he ha jamar chase but he doesnt have that whole fucking grocery list thats going to feed him for week .
jalen hertz ha no excuse this shouldnt be a close game .
i think that this should be at least a two score win for the eagle with what we saw last week .
the bengal defense looking at it .
i expect the eagle the eagle offense need to put up at least thirty five point this game in my opinion .
well say yeah i think that you are underselling the bengal .
three of the four bengal loss came against the chief commander and raven who are good team .
it wa the other one .
this is a tough game and the eagle wa never one in cincinnati at all .
it is it is not going to be easy game whatsoever .
the bengal their defense on paper is not great but i feel they play up the way they play .
they play better than what the talent show .
it is going to be a little bit tougher game than you expect .
they got big defensive end .
it might be a little bit tougher to run against them which mean you are going to have to have jalen hertz beat you .
you are going to have to have jalen hertz carry you and the last two game theyve won havent been because of jalen hertz .
it is been because of the wrong game .
i hope it is a little bit different .
defense need to get pressure on borough .
they can not let him sit back there and throw the jomar chase all day .
i see it being a low scoring close game a twenty oneseventeen type game .
but i honestly do not think the eagle are going to win .
i think joe borough is going to pull this one out .
you can not count out joe borough sometimes .
i think he been a little bit overhated here over the last two or three year since they went to the super bowl and lost .
i think he a much better quarterback than what he showed and he had some injury problem and stuff that .
but yeah i i think joe borough is going to out duel jalen hertz here and sneak out of win .
yeah i think you are .
and you are not wrong .
look i am not trying to undersell the bangle but i do think that their defense the eagle should should keyword should .
thats the problem .
but will they ?
thats the main question .
will they ?
well find out .
another thing to keep an eye on two guy is the brother will be playing in sydney and chase brown .
thatll be fun to watch with sydney being on defense .
chase ha already seen that yet chase is started this week out running back for the bangle .
thats pretty cool .
congratulation to his brother .
he is fast a shit .
i saw where that speed came from on the pick six but it is going to be a good game .
if you guy are not doing anything please come out check out the three hundred and two birth post game show after the complain or rejoice whatever you want to do .
whatever the hell happens because in philly sport week we get a whirlwind of emotion but we are going to wrap it there because i have some family member coming over here in a couple of minute .
but i want to thank both these guy for hopping on tonight .
i want to thank all you guy are fan for coming on checking in this saturday morning .
if you guy havent be sure to comment subscribe all those little thing i always say help u a ton .
if you havent or if you are new here please do that .
please please please .
and follow u on instagram at sip and sport .
you can find all of our personal instagrams on there to follow all of u but follow u on instagram at sip and the letter n pod .
but thats all we got .
other than that hope you guy have a good weekend and we are out of here .
we are out of here .
we are out of here .
hello everyone welcome back to nerdist in the venture and sport podcast .
we finally got the big game that weve been waiting on for long georgia texas well be for sure talking about that later on in the show .
but davion i know you are probably doing great .
i am doing le ideal because and i think these are related to the two .
davion how are you doing ?
let me say this .
the ranger are doing great .
the patriot are rebuilding which is .
but the yankee man the yankee .
no no the yankee are making it a world series .
what do you got ta say now ?
thats why i thought juan soto judge this team is bringing home the pennant .
gon na get a championship back in new york and i am hype about that .
this could be a great world series .
the dodger are an amazing team a but it is the yankee man .
you wanted the best part about that .
you cut out from the first part .
i heard the last part .
well see what happens in post and see what you had to say .
but anyways what were you saying ?
yeah but rafi the blackhawks are in two and four .
do you have anything to say about that ?
unlike your wild take on the patriot i had realistic expectation for my favorite team the chicago blackhawks .
they knew that it wa going to be another year likely picking the top five .
offense need to get clicking a little bit more but what ?
the talent we are slowly building up .
i where we are at offensively defensively .
we looked a hockey team .
the last two year i couldnt say that about the blackhawks which wa sad and upsetting to watch .
now i can not watch them because the new chicago sport network featuring the bull white sox and blackhawks is not on youtube tv which is ridiculous .
i do not know why the blackhawks decided to partner with him in this stupid thing but it is what it is .
most people can not even watch the blackhawks .
and overall too why are you going to go out of your way to buy an antenna et cetera to watch the bull blackhawks or white sox now ?
none of those three team are particularly good if you are a casual chicago sport fan .
blackhawks are fine .
they are on the track but yeah they are definitely bound for another top five pick this year .
let get into the big thing which is starting in twenty minute a we are recording this podcast at around six.thirty six.forty five pm central time on friday .
and thats the world series .
david you indicated it .
the yankee made it to the world series we are playing the dodger .
now this wa very predictable .
i wanted to change thing up .
and i also this wa a dread from it run from it .
you are getting a yankee dodger world series especially after last year or two where the viewership wa terrible .
and i am sure the mlb the higher up people in mlb were not happy at all with the fact that we had diamondback for serangers .
again very low viewed not too many people cared .
i watched most of those game .
i think i watched all of them .
but for a casual sport fan no one wanted to watch that world series .
and i do not blame them because it wa two smaller market team .
and although there are great story both team were great and it went six game .
no one cared too much to watch it .
if you were let me see whats on this year .
however man the cowboy and lakers fan must be who do i pick ?
do i pick my my favorite team my one a in the dodger or do i pick my one b in the yankee ?
who do i choose ?
they are going to be happy regardless .
but you have you went from two small market team to ill follow what it is the two biggest market the two biggest team arguably not even arguably in the entire mlb playing against each other and clashing it out .
the yankee havent made a world series since two thousand and nine .
ive enjoyed that time .
i hope that they lose this world series .
and you have the dodger who last won the world series in two thousand and twenty but that wa in the sixty game short and season .
a lot of people call that it is a mickey mouse title .
i use the same logic with the lakers .
i applied to the dodger too .
this will be interesting .
and yeah get it .
if you are the mlb this is two massive market .
people are going to tune in in general because it is the dodger versus the yankee .
you have all star on both side .
and this is going to be a great series .
yeah i agree with that .
and for the yankee we do not know if glaber is going to go anywhere .
we do not know where if juan soto stays. . and what ?
and i do not know if theyll be able to provide money for all of those guy .
and for year and year and year they keep falling short .
and now both team have a chance to show that they are the king of baseball and with the young talent and they are exciting to watch .
yankee baseball is always the the bomb the yankee bomber it is i feel it speaks for itself in some way but yeah i am excited for yankee yankee dodger world series .
let talk about georgia texas .
what a game for stuff .
also since when can fan all of a sudden change the call middle of a game ?
here at cornell hockey we love to rile up the ref .
but to throw bottle on the field and then somehow get the call reversed .
some shady stuff happened there .
hey georgia is the team to beat .
this team look i am not the biggest fan of carson beck but they showed off they showed up and unless vandy doe something and pull some crazy thing off georgia georgia is good .
i have no other way of putting it rafi .
what are your thought on the game ?
yeah obviously that wa a big swing where we thought we had it one way .
and then obviously the ref protested and then we wound up getting that pick .
now texas wasnt able to do much with that momentum .
i do not think i think that wa a drive that they killed off that georgia defense wa able to defend .
and i did not watch the first half but twenty three nothing georgia .
i did see that arch manning did come in for a little bit because when yours wa certainly struggling a lot .
and this wa one of those game too that wa concerning if i wa a valuelain quinn or yours draftsak because i do not know .
he wa acting very rattled .
he wa very paranoid from the highlight that i wa watching before he got started out for arch manning .
and it is you are playing at home .
you are this is not an away game for a short .
if it wa a way game for georgia id be carson beck for his alabama a couple of week ago wa completely out of it for the first half and then he came back etc .
quinn yours you are playing at texas .
i do not know why he he did not seem ready to go from the get go .
he did come back in later on but two touchdown one pick .
he wa solid in the second half .
they werent able to dig themselves out of the hole .
it wa a pretty a similar strip to georgia alabama a couple of week ago where one team get out to a big lead in the first half .
and then the other team try to come back a little bit but come up too short .
texas i think they again they could have done more with that momentum .
obviously the rest were able to or the rest turned back overturned that call after .
i do not think necessarily the fan were were we are going to hurt or affect the officiate the rest and the rest will .
we have to change this call .
i think it wa more of they allowed more time because of the lay and then the call got reversed and it wa the .
they wound up making the call .
it wa definitely an intersection for texas .
but it wa disappointing to see how texas they got it to a one square game .
but georgia then wa we are closing this out .
we are not letting texas take this game over .
we are not letting them get the momentum and their defense at a great job of suppressing texas and ensuring that texas wasnt able to complete a drive .
because they were they had a couple of drive that theyve made good progress on .
but georgia would close the door on fourth down to say no you are not getting any point here .
and that wound up being the big difference in this game .
georgia now jump up to the number two team in the country where they are now behind oregon who oregon the ohio state also very recently too .
now oregon number one team undefeated .
penn state is playing ohio state next week not this upcoming weekend .
thats going to be a big game a . but i think we have in my mind now and then well get into another team a too .
this year with the 12th team playoff i think is if there any year to do a twelve team playoff i think it is this year because i honestly do not know who is the best team in college football .
i think there a couple of team that i have at the top where i am georgia texas oregon still ohio state .
those are my big four .
but you also have the penn state .
you have the miami .
miami struggled a little bit and theyve had some top game too .
they almost lost to virginia tech a couple of week ago .
theyve had a rough go of it .
starting game they louisville came back last weekend a made it a close game much closer than it should have been with miami getting out to a big lead .
tennessee obviously being alabama recently theyve been good .
i think this year we are going to see we might see some more upset and we might see some more interesting matchup in this college football playoff .
and again shout out to team .
we might see some fun team too .
iowa state might get in from out of the big 12th .
we might see indiana get in potentially a a non they are not going to win the big ten but they could still jump in and fully summarize and conclude this argument that ive been to .
not a real argument but point out i am making .
think goodness that we ditched the stupid east west north south all that dumb division .
because now it is the two best team .
whoever the two top team in the conference play during the conference championship make thing much nicer .
trust me a a big ten i saw who from the big ten region it wa frustrating to be ohio state penn state michigan state michigan one of those team .
who are you guy playing ?
it is northwestern for the one year .
they are good .
it is iowa and then iowa get blown out because they can not keep up offensively .
finally it is we are doing top two team in the conference play turn the conference championship game which i am a massive fan of .
i am very glad that .
i havent been too happy with how region have shifted or not region based with conference but i am at least happy that the two top team in the conference will be playing each other in the conference championship game .
i think thats that make sense to me .
and then you could potentially get michigan ohio state again which would be insane for example .
yeah i one hundred agree with that .
and i want to talk about some other team that are not in the top twelve and probably will end up there .
that team is it is such an interesting team .
such an interesting story .
having your quarter back be not not only not mormon but being jewish .
and then this entire trend starting with byu it is quite funny to watch indiana is one hell of a story .
parma french but wow thats a fun .
it is a fun team to watch .
they are a scoring juggernaut .
speaking of scoring juggernaut boise state .
look boise state may have not had the hardest schedule out here .
but ash and jetty is the i do not even know how to explain it .
he is freaking good .
david is he your husband ?
david do you think he is he your husband ?
yeah i think he is .
i think he carrying this team .
yeah i think he above everyone .
ive seen the espn poll they put out once a week where it is who your husband winner and tim ?
and then you have carson back and you have miami square back when blanking on now what his name is .
but anyways you have a couple of player .
and it is always sixty seventy percent of the fan are saying give jayne to the heisman because he you might be exactly .
it is one thousand one hundred yard .
thats solid .
but then you realize he played a full game of football .
he doing minus one game because theyve been taking him out because he blowing out team .
boise state blow out team in the first half and then they pull .
yeah if he wa playing these game full sixty minute his number will look even more ridiculous .
hed be over one thousand five hundred yard and all good which is you .
yes you can make the argument that he playing in fear inferior competition .
but you got to give prop for it .
he putting a video game number and cc and you can make the argument there is le competition but i do not see any other running back in the big west .
doing anything close to what jayne is doing this year .
it is it is crazy .
and can we mention he put a hundred ninety two yard .
he rushed a hundred ninety two yard on oregon which is considered i guess the best team now in the cultural .
i guess according to ranking this guy is having a reggie bush campaign and the fact is and the sad fact is rafi we both know he not going to win the heisman ?
it is going to go to some qb .
and i do not know who it is going to be whether it is carson beck or when you were or whatnot but it suck .
it is sad to see .
it is great .
for all the worst game now .
ill first crack myself .
it wa the not the big west .
it wa the mountain west .
but yeah i completely agree because .
but i also say to these quarterback havent been too impressive this year .
i havent been blown away by any of these quarterback .
and there no wide receiver putting up the number we saw from devonta smith when he won the heisman marvin harrison jr. when he been in consideration .
if there is any year to give it to a nonpower five player i think this might be the year for jainty entirely .
and i hope that we get boise state a the nonpower five nonpower fourteen in the college football lab this year .
i hope that they put the boise state in because then well get an idea of jainty you are you are ready .
i am not on in zorgan but theys another top ten school in the country .
another solid defense in all that good .
and let see how he doe because it is crazy to say that .
i genuinely think that he having a saquon barclay type of year .
i do not think he going to go a high a saquon barclay did .
again this is bijan robin .
yeah it would have to be .
i feel there no other way of going around it .
but yeah rafi this ha been some exciting exciting football .
i know ive said it before but to say it again college football it is nothing else .
nothing else it .
we do need to talk about nfl rafi .
and two is coming back this week .
dolphin should be always somewhat back .
the bonte is on the jet and they still stink .
and yeah rafi how you feeling ?
also what a robbery from the from by the ref of the white of the viking the other day sorry i am tripping over my word .
it is bizarre what happened .
that wa a clear face mask call .
i do not know how you can not see that either way .
i think i think the viking coach handled it .
when he mentioned that it wa clear clear face mask but we shouldnt have been in that position to lose the game .
and the viking are a very good team .
the ram are a good team .
and i hope sam donald get paid very soon or get paid over this off season because he been balling also .
it is from jefferson .
thats my review on this past .
at least past thursday night game and a few other thing to mention but rafi you got anything else you want to talk about nfl or anything that you whats the biggest what team worry you ?
i know we talked about this last week some team i worry you whether they are going to be able to make it in playoff a week later are there any team you are excited about after what you saw this past week ?
yeah honestly i am pretty concerned about the saint at this point .
and i think most people are with the saint .
and i think now in my mind i think the saint being the saint two and a start said more about the panther and cowboy being displaying this year being quite bad .
more than it wa the saint offense this amazing thing .
the saint are amazing .
they are such a great team et cetera .
they are leading everything in offense .
i think that two thing can be true .
the saint are not the team that won those first two game .
they are not a good a that team .
those that team point .
but they are also not a bad a the buccaneer putting up fifty one point on them .
and then givante williams running for what fell at least two hundred yard on the saint for not this past thursday but the thursday before in champagne revenge game on the saint .
i think that there a variety of factor .
obviously derek hart ha been out the past two week and spencer reller did not do a terrible job versus tampa but obviously you still lost by three touchdown .
and then this past game versus the bronco he wa there wa nothing .
and you also have rashid rahid shahid who now out for the year .
we got injured in that tampa game .
and then crystal lavigat concussed a in the game versus tampa very early in that game and missed the bronco game due to a short week .
and then he did not clear the pressure protocol and camero every week .
it is something new with him .
he ha a rib injury .
he ha hand injury .
he been also he hasnt been fully one hundred .
i think the injury have completely derailed them offensively .
and crystal lavigat is coming back this week .
derek hart should be back the next week .
they are slowly starting to get more and more healthy .
obviously you are not going to get should eat back unfortunately this year .
i think the saint again they are not a good a they were when they won those two game .
they are not a good a we think they thought they were .
but they are also i do not think they are a bad a theyve been for the past five game .
i think they are somewhere in between .
but regardless i think the team not a playoff team .
yeah i think i am going to agree with you on there .
i think that the jaguar i think doug merone pushed off another week that he doesnt get fired .
this patriot team i am going to say i am worried about the patriot .
and the reason why i am going to say this is what every other sport pun ha been saying this past week .
you do not call your team soft on national television .
yes the team hasnt been playing .
maybe they havent been putting enough effort but you call the team soft in the locker room not out in the medium .
and thats why bill balachrak tom brady julian ellman have all spoken out against jared not julian ellman devin mccordy have all spoken out against jared mayer because thats not that thats not the patriot way .
and thats not not the patriot way .
thats not what a coach doe .
you take accountability .
and thats not what he did .
he blamed it all on the player .
and i want to say drake may ha been doing amazing .
and he is a clearly wa a top three pick .
i am going to run through stats with you real quick rob because look against the texan two hundred forty three yard three touchdown against the jaguar two hundred seventy six yard two touchdown .
he going for over five hundred yard and five touchdown in this in the in all the other game that he been starting .
this guy is playing great for a rookie .
and it is sad that the medium came and paid attention to that because we have a stupid head coach who calling the team soft instead of addressing it within the locker room .
you clearly i am passionate about this .
and the reason why i am passionate about it is because a a patriot fan i understood that this wasnt going to be the year we go to the super bowl .
i understood to an extent that we will not be a good a we will not be very good that we might finish under five hundred .
but what ive been seeing from this patriot team is not it .
the defense the defense wa amazing last year .
we have a defensive minded coach .
it is still the same defensive game plan youd think but it is clearly not showing up .
the patriot have a very simple operator very simple defense .
they have that done that for year .
and it seems they can not even execute the simple thing .
and i blame that on the coaching not the player .
very very passionate rant .
and i do think that there some reasoning to believe question the coaching especially a you said they return essentially the same player on defense .
and it is there no difference in system .
gerard mayo ha been in the patriot .
he essentially been incubated for this season to where the belichick is belief it wa duty .
gerard mayo you ready now everything you have everything settled .
the only player that they lost with matthew judon and he hasnt done too much with the falcon this year from a past perspective .
you can make the argument that with his injury history etc .
they did not lose too much .
and yeah it is i think the biggest shock to me is the defense .
i agree with you .
i think we all expected the patriot offense and not be good this year .
drake may have stepped in and played these past two week in his first two game .
i do not think he been insane by all mean but he been a kickback .
but what ?
he been pretty solid .
he id say he played better in his first two game and kail williams it in his first two game .
i think he off to a good start .
and you have some piece you have tomorrow douglas you have also tight end hunter henry rodney stevenson is a guy who show up some week .
doesnt show up other week .
thats a whole other thing that we get into .
but yeah thats a whole other thing .
i definitely question the coaching .
i personally think that it is best to see it out for the year and see what happens .
i personally and this is not coming from a hater perspective .
this is a no buy perspective .
i think id to at least see two year before i this because i think people in the nfl it is such a demanding result business where it is we need to see result away .
i think you give them next year a . give them an off in our off season .
if thing are still off the rail for the patriot then it is a bit of a concern if you get some more if you get an offensive weapon or two for drake may and this is the same result .
then i start to question his coaching a a whole .
and yeah the defense is thats been the back one of the patriot over the past couple of year even in the twilight year of tom brady time there .
tom brady wasnt at the top of this game but you knew that the patriot were going to be a top five ten defense in the nfl .
and we are going to keep similar to what the steelers are now .
but the patriot offense wa still a little better than what the steelers offense is .
it is definitely some red alarm overall for the new patriot .
and on our team too sevegan team the patriot in tom brady final year .
they put on a pretty good performance overall beating the jet by what is it twenty two point three score .
and the jet were coming off a bad loss to the bill .
and it wasnt bad in the sense that they got blown out .
it wa a close loss .
but the kicking situation completely derailed them .
they had they left nine point on the table .
the offense wasnt able to still do much which set up gregs airline to keep missing field goal in the first place .
and it felt they let that game get away from them at the end of the day where they had their chance but couldnt capitalize .
and you pick up devante adam you expect the team to yes the steelers are a good defense but you the jet that put up fifteen point is thats thats you can not be having that happen to get shut out in the second half .
devante adam and gary wilson were both semiinvolved in the offense .
breeze hall wa great for the most part .
i think breeze hall is probably the biggest winner of the devante adam trade because i think it opened up his ability to run and a a passing option .
but this felt a big game for the jet and the jet proceeded to a theyve normally done in the past jet it up .
and if they if they somehow lose no offense if they somehow lose to the patriot this weekend what do you do at that point ?
you fired the head coach already .
you brought in devante adam you made a big swing you picked up another guy who retread packer a tradition .
if the jet lose to the patriot then there serious problem .
and the schedule doesnt get any better for the jet .
they have the texan a week after .
the season do not get that long .
they play the cardinal too which cardinal have been up and down but the cardinal are still good you might say .
then you play the colt .
essentially when that game seahawks depends what week you get .
you play the dolphin twice and tuas back .
hopefully it is healthy .
you play the jaguar but then you play the ram and bill too .
if the jet are two and five they can not be afforded to pick up any more loss .
and they do not have a luxury of having an easy schedule the rest of the year .
and they do not have the luxury of coasting .
their defense you should not be giving up thirty seven point .
i know russell wasnt in a good game but you should not be giving up thirty seven point to the pittsburgh steelers .
thats completely unacceptable for a team the jet with quote unquote super bowl aspiration .
i completely agree with you there rafi .
and i think i want to switch over to talk about some hype from some key game of the week i think that can dictate the rest of the season .
first off and that doesnt dictate the rest of the season but i think it is big to see bear commander one versus two .
the number for two .
but what david here ill ill cut you off real quick to mention this game .
if i am dan quinn if i am the commander i know zardyne gano is in this game .
even if he he been living in practice this week i personally i am this you are ready .
you are playing with cash money .
jen daniel ha been great this year .
you have you have five win which i did not even think they were going to potentially even get to five win this year .
you are at five win on the year .
take your time with the rookie quarterback .
it is .
let him sit out this week .
let mark mario to play .
he mark mario to hold it down .
it wa first to panther .
mark mario to i do not want him playing the rest of the year .
he is not that guy but for another week i think you can throw him out there versus the bear and feel semi he could potentially pull off a win here .
and the worst thing you can do is a jane daniel is not a hundred percent is throwing them back out there .
and if he get reinjured god forbid or something happens then it is the whole season completely derailed .
have him say what ?
we want you to be fully healthy .
we want you to be ready to go .
he run the ball .
he run quite a bit too .
it is stay healthy .
take the week off .
we are fully recovered .
and then you are all ready for the rest of the year .
i learned from the past .
learn from the past .
thats all i got to say now .
look i do agree with the learning from the past .
i am going to slightly disagree with that .
i think you should be an emergency backup .
because i think that their schedule is not bad .
do not get me wrong but because you play the giant they play the giant the week after the steelers which is a good team but you have the steelers eagle cowboy the end of the season is also not too bad .
i think that this is an important game i think for them to win and put a big difference between them and the rest of the nfc east .
and because of that i think that he should play maybe the second half or be very limited in gameplay .
but i agree to disagree .
i do not think we could go .
i do not think we need to argue about that .
but another game i think that should be talked about .
there two of the other game .
colt texan and falcon buck .
you did not say the game i wa thinking about. . this will be fun .
let me talk about falcon buck buccaneer .
and the reason because this game is important because you beat the buccaneer you almost you do not clinch the division but you come very very close to ?
because the only other threat to the falcon and the nfc south is the buccaneers. ?
you beat them here .
you mean that mean you swept them this entire season .
and then the falcon got the cowboy the saint bronco all three team ive been struggling .
and and then it is smooth cruising after that .
other than the charger and viking you end off the season with the raider giant commander which that could be a tough game and the panther .
they could the falcon could position themselves if they win this week .
and thats why i think it is a huge game for them in term of the .
also real quick to chime in they are three and also far into the division .
if they go to four and o then they are looking good .
and thats been one of the fall season of past falcon team aside from obviously terrible quarterback playing arthur smith deciding to have the backup tight end throw a pas on the one yard line .
giving the ball to vijon robinson .
sorry ptsd .
they are winning these conference game .
and if thats something that they did not do in year past they did not have a good enough conference record .
theyd drop one to the panther somehow .
the little always split with the saint .
the buccaneer past year they were getting swept by the bucs too .
to be three and o and potentially to go to four and o i think thats absolutely massive for the falcon to build up that lead on the division but continue on .
i think what this quote it is a very pivotal game for them .
if you do not beat the texan joe flacco the texan have it is joe flacco season .
that is me .
the texan go two game on above you ?
and then your rest of the season schedule is it is not bad but it is not great either .
you play the viking bill lion and bronco .
beyond that yeah their schedule get a bit easier because they have the jet on their schedule the patriot the giant the jag the titan .
to an extent their schedule is fairly easy but at the same time you want to win the division ?
and you do not want to play be put into a wild card race .
and thats why i think this is such a big game for them for the colt for the texan .
look same they are in the same position a the buccaneer which i already explained .
those are my highlight of the game of the week key game to watch .
raffi what are yours ?
david real quick do you start jill flacco this week versus texan ?
because anthony richardson wa very hyped going through the season .
we saw the flash of the first four game before he got put out for the year .
unfortunately got injured and wa out for the year last year .
and there high expectation .
and he ha currently three touchdown six interception under eight hundred yard .
he ha an a qbr of forty three .
and i know qbr is in the biggest .
it is not a directly a quarterback stack and to the team too .
but he ha not been good this year .
he having a massive i guess you can call it a sophomore slump .
but i say it wa more this would be the midway point of his rookie year .
he played essentially seven eight game .
he got injured a this year earlier on .
and do you start joe flacco in this game ?
because joe flacco hasnt been bad .
and once again we saw what he did last year but .
you can not keep rolling out joe flacco .
can i deal with world ?
yes you can continue rolling him out .
but at the end of the day anthony richardson won them the game last week .
i do not see how you yeah i wasnt pretty against the dolphin but i do not see how you can bench him i think .
but it wa the coolest toughens and they won sixteen to ten .
it is you can not .
what it doesnt .
that doesnt .
that will kill his look it is the same way you bench bryce young there you can not do that to a qb .
and unless he get injured or they say hey we want you to rest a bit more .
i tell the doctor to give him some a note .
other than that i feel you need to roll him out .
yes joe flacco played .
we also did not play amazing .
they only put up twenty point on the titans. . i feel yes joe flacco played fairly .
he did his job but i can not argue for anthony richardson to be benched .
very fair .
well move into the game that i want to talk about in the game .
i am very surprised that you did not mention cowboy 49ers .
this is a massive game for both team .
and i think .
both team can not afford to lose this game .
the niner especially where it is christian mccaffrey .
is he going to come back after the buy ?
thats a big .
everyones saying he is .
i get mixed vibe because we went from you should be good for week one two .
he dealing with a little bit of an injury too .
yeah he going to be out for the next month .
and now it is yeah he going to be back after the buy .
we ramped up quickly the ten plus week for mccaffrey to be out for .
and even when he going to come back we discussed this last week .
he probably going to be playing mostly receiving in the receiving game .
you lost brandon iu for the rest of the year .
and the rest of the season for the 49ers they can off if they fall to three and five they lose this game to dallas .
you not only have to deal with dallas fan and them pretending their delusion of thinking that they are going to go to the super bowl .
and then you have the fact that they are going to be happy because the yankee and dodger one of them is going to win the world series which is great for cowboy fan .
but the niner the rest of the season is then you have tampa bay seattle green bay buffalo chicago ram dolphin lion cardinal .
this is the injury .
the injury are ramping up .
it destroyed the roster for the 49ers .
they can not lose this game if they go to three and five .
thats you can still make playoff with seven eight loss .
thats the benefit of having a seventeen playoff .
but if the niner lose this game you are injured to heck him back .
but you can not drop this game .
this is a must win game for them .
and then cowboy too .
micah parson is out again .
dexter lawrence is not playing you are still losing .
you are two top player on defense on the back end .
the running game ha been rico dalville is in solid .
he doesnt make anything special .
i do not know whats going on with him .
he wa brought into the cowboy but i do not think he played even a snap for them .
and that press ha had a terrible year far .
if the cowboy lose this game youd have to imagine mike mccarthy is going to get fired shortly at some point maybe not immediately but he definitely on his way out this year .
it is a terrible season for cowboy .
and if the niner lose this game then you are already injured .
do you even play with chris mcafrey ?
if you drop another game or two if you drop the next week game before the buy and you go to three and six do you even play chris mcafrey this year ?
do you punt on the season ?
i think this is a this ha massive playoff implication massive job implication .
and we are only this is only week eight .
but i think this is this will dictate both team trajectory for the rest of the year .
yeah i agree with that .
i did not even think about this game .
but yeah this is huge for both team and it is prime time .
well see under the light and itll be fun to watch .
i think both team havent been doing great but i think both team can put up a show .
and i think thatll do it then for this edition of the benchro and sport podcast .
a always be sure to this video subscribe to our channel a . follow u on tiktok benchro and our understable support .
and yeah let u know about these big game .
well see what happens .
well be sure to discus it in the coming week a . let u know you think in the comment below and have a good one .
qa review celebrating forty year of audio production welcomed you to this week edition of the glasgow time sport podcast recorded from our studio in the bishop riggs medium centre and by our volunteer working from home .
leipzig star reckons team will struggle at celtic park report by mark walker r.b .
you are watching the adc sport podcast on youtube .
the show start now .
welcome to episode thirteen of the adc sport podcast .
my name is sam frick founder and editor at around the northeast corner covering thirty school across northeast indiana and part of elkart county .
that includes the adc the acac and the northeast aid .
and the first week of the football sectional are completed .
the regional section of volleyball ha been completed .
cross country is now into it final week of the season a the state final will take place on saturday .
and exactly one week from now the first official week of the two thousand and twenty fourtwo thousand and twenty five high school girl basketball season .
college basketball is already underway across the nation .
and we are not too far off from basketball becoming a everyday talk here at around the northeast corner .
and well talk about basketball especially next week a i will have some guest on basketball to preview some of the opening game coming up that week .
but without further ado let go ahead and discus the football aspect of the state tournament .
and fremont came back led by colton armstrong three rushing tds and the fremont eagle defeat the norse by the score of thirty five to twenty one .
and now the fremont eagle find themselves in a very interesting position playing in the sectional semifinal for the first time in a long time at fremont first time since two thousand and eighteen that fremont is playing in the second round of the sectional tournament .
theyll take on a very strong north miami team thats eight and two on the season .
they defeated the black hawk christian in their very first postseason appearance fifty four to fourteen .
i will discus more in detail about those matchup in a later video but congratulation to fremont on their first round win in the playoff for football .
1a forty four south adam cruised to the fifty one to nothing win over the union city indian .
they are going to be traveling down south to try high school .
theyll take on a very good try tightens team that like to run the football .
and this will be the acac game of the week at around the northeast corner south adam looking to punch their ticket to the sectional championship game that sweet .
also by the way madison grant did defeat monroe central .
they are seeing the favorite in that sectional .
they defeated monroe central thirty eight to seven .
they are going to be taking on hanger town madison grant seen a the heavy favorite to win that matchup there a a winning the sectional altogether .
you look at 2a sectional thirty five adam central cruised to the thirty five seven win over bluffton matt heiser with a touchdown and then cameron frable having a strong game defensively of course .
and then jameson rose the quarterback to the bottom of adam central combined for three touchdown total and that win over the bluffton tiger .
they are going to be hosting the cherubusco eagle .
they were down twenty three to twenty early in the game .
they came back to score twenty two on answer .
and they came back to beat the manchester squire the home team in that contest by the score of forty two to twenty three .
angelou iniceli is one of the nominee for the performer of the week at around the northeast corner for football .
he had twenty five carry for two hundred and twenty six yard and three tds .
two catch for fourteen yard and additional touchdown in that win over the squire .
busco is going to have to play their best football going to the landing strip in a row down in adam county to take on the threetime rainstay finalist the adam central flying jet .
you then have eastside defeating whitco thirty five to seven off of the tremendous performance by joe richmond of eastside nine carry for one hundred and twenty six yard and three for ninety yard with three touchdown in that win over the wildcat .
they are going to travel to prairie height .
they are going to be taking on the weedah height weedah height of prairie however you want to call them prairie height panther .
five and five on the season .
they already had the most win in a single season .
since two thousand and thirteen and prairie height is one win away from their most win in a season since one thousand nine hundred and eighty six when they won seven game that year .
i will be discussing this season of prairie height football with your head coach pat mccray later in the show .
but prairie height will be hosting that matchup against the eastside blazer .
and then you look at three ace sectional twenty six garrett cruz to the fifty to twenty six win over lakeland three player rushed for one hundred yard alex guzman cam rubel and calder .
hefty also threw for about i believe it wa eighty nine past yard or something that .
and a pair of touchdown for the garrett railroader a they will be traveling to death valley to take on the tippie valley viking who dominated the woodland warrior fifty one twenty five seventy three tippie valley hosting ten and zero garrett .
and that will be the necc game of the week at around the northeast corner .
west noble dominate and goal forty two to fourteen led by seth carrute .
once again leading the way for the charger backfield twenty two carry for one hundred and forty three yard two touchdown and he became the career rushing leader in the history of west noble high school for rushing yard .
he ha over one thousand six hundred rushing yard going into this week .
and anytime you play a rivalry game in the postseason it amplifies thing a little bit more between these two rival that clearly do not each other whatsoever .
and i think this is gon na be a fun matchup in the near at least at the start well see if fairfield can hang around in this game .
ill get the very good west noble team .
i said earlier with seth pruitt rushing for over fourfive hundred yard going into that matchup and setting the career rushing leader at west noble .
you also have sixty eight career touchdown a . threeeight hundred and twenty eight bishop lure dominated norwell by the score of forty two to seven .
they are going to jay county take on the jay county patriot who defeated belmont forty two to seven .
they had a lineman with a pitch six at jay county that wa austin shaneline .
sorry welcome back .
it appeared at my computer died during the recording .
well go ahead and resume where we left off here .
we talked about three essential twenty eight jay county who faced bishop lure at jay county on friday .
delta defeated the heritage patriot fifty four to fourteen where delta ran i would guess over three hundred yard rushing in that game .
and unfortunately for heritage it seemed they were limping into playoff .
i did not think theyd be limping this much in the playoff but i think in the end they delta simply played better football than the heritage patriot .
thats two year in a row where delta came into the postseason with a mediocre record .
although a very hard conference in the hoosier heritage conference .
and delta is having success far in the state tournament .
mrs. sennewa i can not overlook the delta eagle undefeated mrs. sennewa wa gon na be hosting delta or miss took care of business against okale after a slow first half .
they scored twenty one unanswered in the second half to the beat .
huntington north set a new program record for most point scored in a single game defeating the frankfurt hot dog seventy seveneight .
and the viking now have seven win on the season .
theyll be hosting a five and four marion giant team an underwhelming marion team this season .
and they are one win away from a spot in the sectional final which will be played against either logan sport or lebanon .
huntington north will be on the road no matter who it is .
and logan four and nine and one this season they are coming off a thirty fivethirteen one over muncie central .
probably gon na be underdog in this matchup against lebanon who came back from an early deficit to defeat culver canemies in the fourth quarter .
thirty fivethirty two culver canemies wa seen a probably the slight favorite to even win that sectional .
and now lebanon the tiger of lebanon have a chance to play for a sectional championship .
and for the lebanon tiger only one sectional championship in their entire history .
it go all the way back to one thousand nine hundred and ninety seven .
it is been a long time coming for the tiger and for huntington north fan huntington north with their best season since the two thousand and eight campaign at least .
and huntington north one sectional title a coming all the way back to one thousand nine hundred and ninety three .
we could see a pleasant regional bound team in coming out of this sectional over the next couple of week .
and then we look at for a sectional nineteen to wrap thing up in football coverage .
east noble took care of business against southside by the score of forty fiveseven in kinderville dylan krell once again doing dylan krell thing a he had ten carry for one hundred and sixty four yard and three tds .
that is for all you math folk out there .
there sixteen.four yard for kerry for dylan krell .
and east noble is gon na get that rematch against leo lyon at lyon field .
that is going to be the anec game of the week at around the northeast corner a east noble set to embark on their rematch from week number five where east noble defeated leo thirty fivetwenty nine .
a key matchup that ultimately decided the northeast state in favor of the east noble knight winning the conference to themselves .
east noble looking for their first sectional championship two thousand and twenty leo looking to repeat for the first time since two thousand and eleven for football and they will in the winter that matchup will face either bishop dwainier or the wayne general .
and if wayne win in that matchup against dwainier wayne will be the visiting team in the sectional final at either east noble or leo .
if dwainier win this matchup against wayne dwainier will be the host of this sectional championship .
dwainier coming off of thirty eightnothing went over columbia city .
columbia city columbia city season end at eight and two .
dwainier won thirty eightnothing which i think a lot of u did not expect it to be that lopsided although we expected dwainier to be in this game and i did predict dwainier to advance .
thats not super surprising by the outcome but i think the score wa a little bit more surprising than i think most people anticipated .
and then wayne took care of business against new haven but the general are going to have their hand full against dwainier a team that they did not play this season .
in fact they have not played bishop dwainier in the regular season since before the division were implemented .
now let go ahead and shift over to volleyball over the weekend on saturday .
volleyball regional saturday took place across the entire state of indiana and unlike past year this year wa the first year with a new format for volleyball .
it is pretty similar to the basketball baseball softball state format where you have the one game regional and then you have the two game semistate .
this past weekend wa the one game regional .
we had a few school from the aac area that competed on saturday .
well go ahead and start with the acac and well begin with newcastle and heritage .
heritage unfortunately saw their season coming to an end at the hand of the newcastle trojan a twenty fivewin newcastle team to which newcastle swept the heritage patriot twenty fivetwenty two twenty fivenineteen and twenty sixtwenty four .
heritage had an opportunity to even win this match but in the end newcastle a little bit better that day .
newcastle will be part of this 3a semistate that well talk about in another video .
a far a woodland concerned they did take care of business in the regional and woodland remains undefeated all the time against regional competition three straight sorry not three straight sectional title three sectional title three regional championship for the first time since two thousand and thirteen .
woodland is going to semistates .
i am not one hundred sure but that wa a different format at the time and there wa no semistate back then in two thousand and seven where you had regionals and then you go to the state final which wa semifinal and then the real state final .
woodland i believe wa part of it at one point .
woodland took care of business against lakeland .
they won this match three set to one .
i believe the first set wa twenty five to seventeen .
second set went to lakeland twenty fivetwenty two .
woodland took the final two set twenty fivetwenty and fifty fiveten unless anderson continues to lead the way of the woodland warrior i believe she had over twenty kill in that match .
i think you look at even other player in that matchup that contribute for woodland .
obviously you look at kenna smith at labarrell played a monster game on defense for the woodland warrior .
the front row wa awesome against lakeland especially down the stretch .
you look at a player let see katie bottom the sophomore some big kill down the stretch to seal the deal against the lakeland lakers .
hallardsjackway and defensive specialist had a big game a . i looked at again the front row had a monster game against lakeland .
and now woodland ha the opportunity to get to the safe file .
well talk about woodland semistate matchup in a separate video .
we take a look at the northeast corner conference .
the nea obviously did not have any team advancing past sectional .
it wa the acac and the necc and the only other two member from the necc that played .
fremont played south newton in the regional final .
i believe they were at laporte .
and unfortunately for the fremont eagle they were unable to come back from an o2 deficit and they fell in four set at the hand of south newton .
the rebel of south newton they took the first two set twenty fiveeighteen and twenty fivetwenty two .
fremont took the third set twenty fivefifteen but fell short in set four twenty fivetwenty .
you look at south newton statistically they were led by the central michigan commit taylor creight with twenty two kill on forty seven hitting .
she had three ace two blot seven dids .
you also look around this south newton team number nineteen for them and that is briley iceminger with nineteen dids .
they had a couple of girl with three blot on this south newton team a couple of girl in double figure including number twenty two the freshman jada creight with twelve kill and another senior madison bullinger with ten kill .
and unfortunately for fremont that mean the end of high school valuable career for addy parr for claire folt who going to st. francis for delaney bach and for millenia miller at least i might be blanking one more name .
i think they also have lexi stevens who also a senior and she play on the softball team at fremont .
yeah thats the defensive specialist who you are talking about outside hitter libero defensive specialist another outside hitter slash defensive specialist a a their center claire folt .
they do return some piece back including i would say kaylee neuensschwander would be a one to keep an eye on net season for the fremont eagle .
i looked at maybe play mallory huffnagle huffnagles are pretty known athlete at fremont .
emma crager their center defense specialist who only a sophomore .
i look at her for a potential emergence chloe verden .
they are a sophomore defense specialist another one and then hardly wise another middle who a junior this season .
but obviously it is been a little bit different net season for fremont volleyball but no le the first ever sectional championship in the history of fremont volleyball and they came two set shy of winning their first ever regional .
but thankfully for the folk in angola they were able to take care of business but it did require some drama some stress and some five set and a five set throw .
and a five set thriller .
west lafayette took the first set twenty fivenineteen angola took the next two set twenty fiveeighteen and twenty fivetwelve .
ill be speaking with the two harris sister at angola ava harris the senior center maya harris the junior outside hitter both player committing at the highest level division one athletics .
once their endola high school career come to an end we will be speaking with those two harris sister about this season up to this point a a that regional championship game .
they will be taken on hammond bishopknoll at plymouth on saturday .
i will be talking about the semistate pairing in a separate video .
and then lastly i do wan na make sure i address the ihswa cross country regionals a the two regionals we primarily focus on around the northeast corner .
they take place at new prairie and new haven .
well make this one pretty short for new prairie because i think only a handful of them were able to advance to state or cross country .
one thing i will say for the boy section at new prairie noah bond trader of the westview warrior successfully won a regional championship at a time of fifteen minute and thirteen second .
i am not sure how i remembered it fluently but here i am with my awesome photo memory remembering all the statistic and whatnot and also evan corle of fairfield placed 12th in that regional at new prairie .
keep in mind i am not looking at this now .
this is off of memory .
and i will tell you without any doubt those are the only two that i remember advancing to state from that regional .
now a far a the regional hosted by huntington university which technically would be considered to be new haven a the host nevertheless a lot of local kid were able to advance to that regional hosted by huntington university .
well start off with the lady .
kenya leach at columbia city placed third at columbia city .
and thankfully for the team they scored enough .
i think they had about one hundred and three point and they finished third a a team to advance to the state final a a team for the first time since two thousand and ten .
all of the columbia city player on the girl side they are playing in the state final no matter of their placing .
alans freezing of huntington north .
kenya leach is a sophomore freezing also a sophomore .
she finished in fourth place .
rowan norris of leo finished fifth another sophomore .
chloe gibson of east snow will place seventh .
and then senior ashlyn myers of prairie height finished fifteen .
now among those qualifying that on nonqualifying team usually top fifteen it is usually the state final but keep in mind that there are team that finish the top five that do advance no matter what .
there are some player on nonqualifying team that still advance no matter what .
and that would be sophia haslet of lake park group placed 16th .
katie nile of woodland placed 21st .
madison gerber of adam central placed 23rd .
and then abediel ramseyer of lufthin placed 29th .
congratulation to these lady a they advance to the state final hosted by tarot on saturday .
and then on the boy section ryan garcia of new haven placed second .
followed by zinner now of lakewood park at third .
gavin good of columbia city placed sixth .
andrew stronger of si placed eighth .
memphis martin of lakeland placed 10th .
daniel moll of columbia city placed 12th .
cooper enure of angola placed 13th .
and then for those that did not place on top fifteen but still qualified on nonqualifying team kayden clink of angola placed 19th .
the codisprunner of south adam placed 23rd .
gavin cook of angola placed 24th .
and then jude baumgarner of lufthin getting in those last couple of spot at 25th .
they are all going to the state final hosted by tarot .
and this is the final week of the cross country season .
a the fall season start to wrap up .
i lie there is one other thing i do want to make sure i address here and that is soccer .
unfortunately the soccer season did not go a planned for the remaining school that still managed to play in semistate .
well begin with the boy section of the semistate .
and that wa bethany christian .
they went to kokomo .
they took on a very strong eighteenwin covenant christian team despite the fact bethany came in a the defending state champion .
they went to pks in a scoreless regulation scoreless overtime .
and unfortunately for bethany christian covenant christian wa a hair better in the penalty kit .
they defeated bethany fourthree in the pks .
covenant christian will represent northern indiana in class 1a in the state final .
and the bethany christian bruin season come to an end at fourteenfourfour .
one win shy of a trip back to iu indianapolis .
for a state championship .
disappointing a it sound now still a remarkable run for the bethany christian bruin .
and then lastly i wan na mention the westview warrior .
they were they made a trip to south bend st. joseph to take on faith christian a very strong sixteenwin faith christian team .
again the bethany covenant christian boy matchup this matchup on the girl side needed overtime in a scoreless tie .
it looked it may or could have went to penalty kit but unfortunately for westview faith christian wa able to get one look at the net and they converted .
and that wa hannah bolton with the match deciding semistate clinching goal with about a minute twenty six ago in the second overtime off the feed from bailey pati .
and faith christian is going to the state final .
westview once again one game short of their first ever trip to the state final for girl soccer one worthy of note for westview breed corey stopped eighteen of nineteen shot unable to get the job done for the westview warrior .
and the soccer season for two thousand and twenty four and around the northeast corner come to an end .
and that is the talk around the corner .
and now we get to our interview .
i am here with two very talented player on this androle girl volleyball team ava on the maya harris on the left of the screen here .
and lady how are you doing this evening ?
pretty good feeling good .
yeah we came off an exciting night yesterday .
taking the day off but feeling good. . i heard you lady had a lot of fun last night on your way back from southwood .
yes very very much fun .
it wa a very fun bus ride .
it is a lot of music being played and i am getting to go around the mound with everyone there supporting u . it wa great .
before we talk about that regional championship i want to go back to the beginning of the season .
obviously this team ha went through a lot of success over the year especially with morgan gardy and maya ball class coming through .
and they had a lot of success a . couldnt get it done in the regional but youve returned a lot back despite the fact now that your dad and the coach of the androle program became the head coach of the androle .
oyeball stepped down after last season whatnot .
you also still return a lot of senior and talent back from this team .
when did you realize that maybe this year wa the year that maybe this team could do something that no other team at androle ha ever done before ?
i think we knew from the start that we would still be super good this year .
and then throughout the season a we kept putting work in and we saw how much everyone wa determined to get better and wanted to get further than we have in the past it wa a turning point and how we played and how we acted a a team .
and it helped u to get to the point where we are now .
talk about the senior classroom last year compared to this year and how do the lady from each of those class have implemented and impacted the life of you two especially all the other player on the androle team to make the great program that it is today ?
yeah i think the senior from last year obviously it wa a bigger class but also had a few people going on for college level volleyball .
but this year is mainly basketball player plus ava .
but i think they were also very motivated to want to win and they had that drive in them it pushed u to work hard .
i think a the senior class we stepped up and took leadership .
and i think the way we played and acted towards the rest of the team changed than it ha been in the past few year .
talk about the family dynamic with this program especially with you maya and then ava playing alongside you .
ava the majority of your assist come off of maya kill .
maya kill coming off almost ninety nine of all those assist from ava .
talk about that dynamic there .
we played with each other for a many year that i can remember but i guess having that connection work the best .
we know what we need from each other and we know how to push each other to work our hardest .
and it compliment each other and it reflects off of u onto the team and everybody work hard and want to win .
yeah i think being a setter and a hitter we know when each other is down or messing up and what they need to get back to where they should be .
i think that living together and being around each other constantly it help that dynamic a lot .
angle is a better school amongst the school that anc sport cover in this area but when you look at angola in term of dynamic with the athlete and the player provided at angola high school there a lot of small school family field .
and even this program it feel tighter than ever before with this program .
talk about the connectivity and the camaraderie with this program with the angola community .
yeah i think we have a lot of family obviously we are sister and then we have kendall and bailey holman who are sister .
there a lot of family aspect in that but also weve all played with each other since middle school and we played club together .
i think we came together this year and it is more of a family than it ever ha been .
yeah and i feel this year weve worked more a lot on our team chemistry more than we have in the past year .
it is pushed u together and then that reflects off into how we play on the court .
having that family act around each other it help in the volleyball aspect .
quickly before we discus the state term i do wan na ask a curveball question here .
who the most competitive player on the team and who the most loose i guess to say ?
i say one of the most competitive would be bailey .
she get very competitive in the best way possible and she get that energy out on everyone else too to work hard and want to win .
i think shes very competitive and ha that drive in her .
i would say one of the more looser player is lexi .
she obviously doe wan na win a lot but she also ha fun and she brings a lot of light to the team .
and i think thats good balance to have .
yeah the interesting balance of personality certainly is shown with angola over the year and whatnot .
let talk about the state tournament obviously the sectional that your team always in is always the most competitive .
when you bring an east snowball into calve now it make it even more competitive than ever before .
you obviously took care of bishop dwainer in three set three very close set .
you beat concordia in three close set .
obviously you two played a massive role in that a . the regional going into southwood long trip down there to wabash taking a west sloppy .
talk about the pregame vibe going into that matchup down in southwood knowing the history with going to regionals and knowing that this is one game .
when doe dean you win a regional championship ?
yeah i think we were all excited but also nervous at the same time .
we definitely wanted to break the curse of not being able to win a regional .
we were all nervous but i think on the bus ride down we were trying to get hyped up we were playing music and it wa a lot of exciting moment .
and i think that we got our butterfly to fly in formation whereas other people butterfly might have been flying around .
but i think we took our nerve out and used it to our advantage .
and knowing that everyone stepped up and we were able to not be a nervous and reset when we needed to and being able to be mentally tough too .
and i think it help it is experience wa your best friend going in and whatnot .
obviously west lafayette weve heard about their scrappiness on defense and theyve had some player that are senior that were very good this year for the west lafayette red devil .
you were down zeroone that first set fought your way back and then set four come in an opportunity to close set four west lafayette come back .
i think they scored the final three point to force the fifth set .
talk about the transition between set four and five because for those that do not understand volleyball volleyball is very much a momentum sport when especially going from one set to another .
talk about that transition from going from man we could have had set four to let focus on winning set five .
yeah set five is definitely a hard spot to be in .
you never know which way it will go .
and i think our way of thinking of that is the first to five .
we always try to come out on top first get that energy rolling first we can take that momentum into the rest of the set .
yeah definitely set five is probably the most mentally hard and physically set to be in .
it could go anyones way anyone could win that set but yeah it is first to five and who can last the longest and work the hardest .
and it is show because you jumped out to that big that leah they wa five the one at one point set five eight to three at one point then west lafayette and the one back at the you knew it wa gon na happen .
they tied it a and then you came back and you were resilient showing that battle tested work all season long that value amount and the quality of work that showed over the year finally paid off .
obviously you had some big play on defense from player anna mcclure and you had kendall holman with big kill and you had lettsy stolman with big kill ava with big time set .
and then obviously the last play of the match ava fittingly cross pas to maya harris to win the regional .
talk about that moment when you realized that this wa over and angola wa a regional champion .
yeah but i think on that last point we knew this is it we are winning this .
and a a setter i always have many option .
and i think that everyone wanted to be the one to get the kill which is great .
but i know maya is always there and shes always ready to put the ball away .
but yeah i think maya told me that one of our player savannah vixler on set fourteen wa shaking and getting emotional because we knew that we were about to win this .
and thats a great feeling to have we know that we have it and we are confident in our ability to win .
yeah it wa a great team effort .
i started with a good serve from bailey and she wa able to get a great dig off it .
and then ava put up a beautiful set and then i put it away .
after that knew wow we did it for the first time ever in history .
and it is a great feeling and it brought up our hope and determination to keep on going in semistate .
this is maya and ava harris of angola .
maya is a junior outside hitter .
ava harris is a senior on this angola team .
before we talk about semistate i do want to mention your future home at the college level .
ava you are going to villanova next year .
maya you are gon na have to wait an extra year .
you are going in two year to illinois in the bay of ten .
obviously being a purdue fan thats exciting there and whatnot .
talk about the valid reason a to why you chose those two program .
illinois ive always wanted to be in the big ten .
it is been a dream since i wa little .
knowing that i had the opportunity it ha me forward to choose them .
but also coaching staff is great .
they have a great team chemistry and they are all one big family .
and thats something that i look forward in a college .
knowing that for the next four year that those are the people i am gon na be around every day .
team and the player and the culture that wa probably my biggest drawboard .
yeah i think for me obviously villanovas a great school with good academic and it is a beautiful campus and a great spot .
but i think what pushed me over the edge when deciding wa when i went and visited there the people were amazing .
the coach were great .
the teammate were great .
and i felt that the people there were very similar to me and i would fit in there .
and they gave me a great opportunity and i am excited to be there next year .
that is for sure .
now we move forward .
and obviously this week is preparation for your team to prepare for a long road trip to plymouth which is over in marshall county .
you are gon na be taking on hammond bish of noel in the 3a semistate .
i believe they arranged one spot ahead of you according to some poll in the state .
while you are ranked seven they are ranked six .
looking at the overall number of bish of noel it seems they do serve the ball very very .
they are also probably scrappy westloth yet .
i would imagine this is probably gon na be another long match a we would expect .
and especially with this being a tworound day in semistate because now it is being reversed to two round i am gon na say to go along with basketball baseball and forth and whatnot .
talk about your early impression with hammond bish of noel and the fact you are gon na be playing a two game potentially a two game semistate .
i think we need to work it out and have that mental and physical stability throughout the whole match .
yeah they are obviously gon na be a good team if they are in this spot .
i think we have to take this week to focus in learn more about them and dial in ourselves a we can prepare to play them on saturday .
very very exciting day no le .
my own question for me obviously you wan na get to the state final in mince indiana .
obviously thats the ultimate goal is playing in one of the greatest venue in all of volleyball in the state of indiana in both state and one at worth and arena .
but now you are making history for the first time in the history of the program .
how would science feel for the community your family the parent the past player to be talking about and goal volleyball doing something that no one ha ever done before ?
yeah it is great .
and it is amazing to be a part of this team that is making history and knowing that our work ha paid off and the community support ha been amazing .
and we have to focus on the next game and our next match .
yeah it is a great feeling to make history for our high school .
but i think it is a great feeling to be able to prove to people that we were capable .
yeah thats for sure .
and for you for david harris for senior ann mcclure bailey holman lettsy stillman kendall holman .
i go down the list across the order .
this program a lot of exciting moment a this school embarks history and unprecedented history no le for female sport at angle high school to be this close to playing for the state file which angle ha never done in a team sport volleyball or basketball or football .
it definitely is a signing time no le to be a part of that opportunity .
maya ava any final thought before i let you go ?
thank you much .
thank you for having u . all that is maya and ava harris of the angle lady hornet a they prepare on historic first semestates a they will take on handish of noel at plymouth high school .
lady thank you for taking the time to talk about the hornet .
and good luck this week .
thank you much .
i am here with the head football coach of the prairie height panther pat mccrae .
coach how are thing going for you and your parent ?
all coach before we talk about this season i do want to talk about your time at prairie height over the year .
this is your ninth season at prairie height .
and when you first came in this is the program that went through a lot of struggle .
i think they were winless at that time and went through a little bit of a losing streak at that point .
coach when you look back between when you first came in a a head football coach to now where have you seen the most improvement with the program especially with the way it is handled with the community aspect of prairie height football ?
a far a the community the prairie height community ha always been great in supporting u and our team even when weve had some struggled year .
theyve always been there in supporting u . but the kid our kid are always blue collar hardworking kid .
and this year it is been fortunate to have a big group of senior .
we have sixteen senior this year .
in high school football especially in small school football it is a number game .
and when you have a lot of kid that help tremendously .
that is for sure .
going into this season obviously this last season for prairie height in two thousand and twenty three your team wa winless .
but it seemed the program wa showing a lot of fight still .
and it seemed a young team wa going to eventually improve going into this season .
talk about the excitement about this year prairie height panther .
i think it left off with last year .
we went into sectional zero and nine and went into central louisville .
they beat u in the regular season last year .
i think it wa fifty five to nothing .
and we went into that game last year .
and we ended up losing fourteen to nothing .
but hat off to our senior that we had last year .
i think that the hard work and determination of them guy is sticking through it with the season .
i think that helped to bleed over into this year and help get our kid started off on a good foot .
and we brought in extra kid who did not play last year from that senior class .
and thats helped a lot .
and a good group of kid this year we started off the season with roster of fifty kid .
and in my tenure at prairie height thats been the most kid weve ever had on roster .
ended that season last year .
wasnt what we wanted what we hoped for last year .
but i think that group of boy who played last year helped build on what we are doing .
and any time you get fifty kid at prairie height for football thats a huge deal .
i remember the day when it used to be maybe getting thirty kid at prairie height wa seen a that wa a big deal .
getting fifty wa thats a tremendous accomplishment for your program at prairie height .
obviously you started the season with a win over witco .
i believe it wa fifty six to fourteen at witco .
and that wa a game where jordan club set the record i believe for reception i believe in a game against witco and whatnot .
and it wa the beginning of something that wa something we have not seen in prairie height in quite some time especially with the threeinone start .
you had klump on that team .
you have other kid on that team a . obviously well talk about matt armstrong in a matter of moment .
but talk about the team resilience and then their depth throughout the lineup where at any given point any of these player could come up with a big play .
yeah thats been a big thing especially i said being a small school and having good number that that help because weve had kid who maybe for a week or have been injured .
weve been able to move other guy in and not necessarily freshman .
in the past weve had low number .
and you get one or two guy hurt .
and then all of a sudden it seems you are starting a bunch of freshman to fill in .
and this year that being that weve had more kid on our roster than ever before since ive been coaching thats been a huge benefit .
when youve had a kid injured we do not have to backfill with freshman .
and some guy that have stepped up this year and then it is been amazing .
connor syesmore he a sophomore started off at the beginning of the year .
he wa injured .
he did not play the wickel game .
i do not believe he played week two either against bronson .
and then connor ha steadily worked his way up and gotten better and better each week .
thats been a good thing for u . and then when you look at the lineup with prairie hide obviously you have some multisport athlete on this team that are experienced especially in wrestling .
one of the top sport at prairie hide is wrestling .
you have the hagewood kid that play both way .
thats a huge deal prairie hide because you always have to play both way on this team .
and then youve got obviously we talked about matt armstrong a dualthread quarterback who can run and throw the football .
he obviously recently set the program for career passing yard at prairie hide which i believe wa previously set by ethan hoover a few year ago at prairie hide .
talk about matt armstrong growth over the year at quarterback that ha helped him become who he is .
and he only a junior by the way .
we did one more year talking about matt armstrong at quarterback .
yeah i think it wa his freshman year .
his first start wa against chere busco .
and that probably couldnt have been a worse situation for him to step into a a starting quarterback .
that wa not one of his best game by far a a quarterback at prairie hide .
but at that time we felt hey we were going to give matt a shot and see where thing could take u . and you are .
matt is a dualthread quarterback .
his rushing yard i think now second on the team in rushing yardage this season .
and i think getting those early start a a freshman ha helped him out a lot a he progressed through last year and this year .
and i think there a lot left on the horizon for him .
that is for sure .
let go ahead and shift towards the sectional game .
obviously after going three and one you had a little bit of a losing streak .
then the big wing against fremont happened in week a. you get some momentum going into sectional .
you drew central noble in the first round .
a team you beat in the regular season this year back in week number four .
you beat central noble twenty six to fourteen .
and again talking about the common theme of prairie hide matt armstrong doe what he doe best throwing the football and running the ball .
you got a balanced rushing attack led by the hagewood kid .
you got some receiver at bound that collectively get their target and whatnot .
talk about the ability to get that win on the road against a central noble team that wa hungry for a win .
and knowing this wa going to be the last game for some of these team at central noble how do you be able to come out and gun out that win against central noble ?
i think that go back to a little bit of history .
and i said last year we went into that sectional one game last year zeronine after central noble beat u in the regular season fifty fivezero .
and our kid went out there and fought to the nail every play .
we ended up losing that game fourteenzero .
and that wa the whole thing i stressed to them last week wa do not count these guy out .
they are going to come out and fight you .
and my message to the team last friday night wa we got forty eight minute to go out and earn a shot at another forty eight minute .
and i wanted them to empty their tank .
and i felt our kid did that .
they went out and they fought back a hard a central noble did fought harder and empty their tank .
and we earned another forty eight minute next week .
that is for sure .
a you looked at prairie height football that wa the 11th postseason win in the history of the program .
thats that make it a little bit more special for the program .
you reach five win for the first time since two thousand and thirteen .
and only i believe it is the third time since one thousand nine hundred and eighty nine .
and i know people are getting tired of hearing that year at prairie height football .
this is a big deal for this program going in the direction .
now you have an opportunity to get a six win .
something that hasnt happened at prairie height since one thousand nine hundred and eighty six .
you are going to play east side .
you are going to be a home in front of your very loyal home crowd at prairie height .
you are going to be hosting east side team that beat you by thirteen point in the regular season .
when you talk about the matchup at the east side and obviously it is going to be harder for east side to win that second game because of how hard it is to beat the same team twice .
talked about the matchup at the east side up front .
talked about that matchup knowing you are not to face joe richmond at quarterback .
and then talked about what are thing that your team is going to have to continue to do to have an opportunity to win this game .
yeah excuse me .
east side is going to be east side .
they are a good football team .
theyve traditionally been a good football team .
and our kid are going to have to work hard .
and if we want to win this game we are going to have to be willing to work harder and them guy and fight harder .
it doesnt matter to me who they got at quarterback .
i know that they are going to be the same east side team .
they to run the football .
they are quarterback no matter who it is .
have always been good at running the football .
and they are they are tough kid and they are tough to be .
and i do not expect anything le from them than weve seen in them in the past .
and coach brandiwes done a good job picking up that program and moving forward .
and we are excited to play them guy at home and looking forward to a good game this friday .
i guess we should be forecasting some hardnosed football on friday are not we ?
yeah i am pretty sure east side going to want to run the football thats for sure .
yeah thats for sure .
final question from me coach .
obviously you are a prairie height guy and this community ha embraced you and your family within the prairie height football program .
the feeder system ha been a big part of prairie height growth over the year .
talk about how appreciated that you feel about being a part of the prairie height family .
a very small community that feel it is a big family over there and brushy prairie and whatnot .
that blue color feel of prairie height ha always resonated with the prairie height community .
talk about how much do you appreciate being a part of that prairie height culture ?
man that mean everything to me .
thats where i grew up .
i remember watching guy when i wa a little kid .
when i wa in kindergarten first grade a lot of the football player used to bail hay from my dad and growing up watching prairie height football .
and then a i came up through the program man i love our community and being a part of it .
when lose or whatever we always have great fan who are there supporting u and wanting our kid to do the best .
and i love prairie height and brushy prairie .
thats a badge of honor for guy me and kid at our school .
that is for sure .
and your community embrace that for sure .
this is patrick mccray the head football coach of the prairie height panther a they get sent take on the eastside blazer in the sectional semifinal .
coach any final thought before we let you go ?
no want to say thanks to guy you and everybody else in our area and the medium who promotes high school football .
all coach .
thank you for taking the time to talk about the prairie height panther and good luck in the sectional semifinal against the eastside blazer .
all thanks sam .
thats going to do it for the 13th episode on the adc sport podcast .
i want to give my sincere thanks to the following guest here this evening for coming on the show .
and goal is maya and ava harris of the andro volleyball team and prairie height head football coach pat mccray .
next week well have a new line of a desk including some folk from the basketball scene a next week well start the two thousand and twenty fourtwenty five girl basketball season .
well have basketball preview on top of whatever we have left for football .
and from there we will be getting thing rolling on the hardwood of the basketball season .
and my name is sam fritz .
thank you for tuning in to this week episode of the adc sport podcast .
let people know that the adc sport is on youtube .
thank you for watching the adc sport podcast .
please this video and the page adc sport on youtube .
let people know that the adc sport is on youtube .
also our facebook page at around the northeast corner and follow either around the northeast corner and sam frick on twitter slash ets .
we are also on instagram a . look for adc sport around the northeast corner and you will find u there .
you can also follow the man himself sam frick the founder and editor at around the northeast corner for other additional content .
this ha been an around the northeast corner presentation .
whats up everybody ?
thank you for joining u . early edition of sunday morning munch of madhouse .
brought to you by chicago sport podcasts favorite sponsor bridge corbboard your northwest indiana sport headquarters with the coldest beer in chicago land and the best food in the biz man .
come check u out today at two oclock .
we are going to be doing a pregame podcast .
we are going to be giving away a fifty five inch television .
a lot of free giveaway .
trivia we got some trivia going on five question about the game the current game .
we are going to be having a lot of fun up there .
come break bread with chicago sport podcast .
i am here with brandon p. and darius the lock lockhart .
how are you guy doing this morning fella ?
everythings good man .
everythings good .
ready to roll man .
how do you guy feel about this washington game man ?
how are you guy feeling ?
i feel i am getting ready to suit up at four.thirty .
we might need you brother .
if you are a intense on the field a you are on the set man we are going to win .
we are sure .
it is a lot of talk going on man .
what year ?
whats out there ?
some of these people saying that we did not do our due diligence doing the draft process .
a whole bunch of crap man .
and i know what ive seen when i watch these game now .
no team pay me what i am saying to scout anything that .
but i think i know the game is good enough to know better what i am saying ?
yeah for sure .
what are you hearing out there brandon ?
pretty much the same thing .
i think we made the decision .
i am not worried about it .
you could see whats being produced out there .
i am pretty comfortable where we are at .
definitely exciting for this game .
a win is always nice .
and we want to keep rolling with that .
pretty excited .
and i am excited about the fact that and i go back from the goat this go to i am going to date myself the michael jordan era where he always wanted to play against your best .
he used to talk trash and he wanted you at your best because he wanted to beat the best version of you .
and thats where i am at today man .
i want the best version of jaden daniel .
i want him out on the field and i want to kick him in his teeth and hit him in his rib .
but yeah i think it is going to be a good game .
i am excited about it man .
it is a pleasure and honor to have you guy on the set .
harris is always looking slick .
i your is that a crucial catch hat ?
nah nah this is a hat i got maybe a year and a half ago. . it is no color .
yeah it is a color wave what i am saying ?
yeah i got mine on from last year .
buddy of mine gave it to me at a tailgate .
i said hey nice hat .
he handed a to me on mine for real .
that wa pretty cool man .
brandon i your number two .
you got over there bro .
thats awesome .
i want to see him show out today .
yeah i think no matter what his number are i feel he will .
and i think he going to do a good job .
what do you guy think his number are going to be ?
while i am sharing our podcast i got my head down .
thats what i do .
once we go live i can start to share to a bunch of other facebook group .
please forgive me but piggyback off of that question and talk between each other .
if i can guess i do not think he going to be overloaded he wa last year with over two hundred plus .
i do not think thats going to be the case because we have much around him .
and i am sure the washington defense is going to be keying on him because he had such an explosion last year .
i feel the wealth is going to get spread around pretty .
a far a dj moore out sixty sixty five anywhere from sixty five to eighty yard in the air a touchdown i feel .
about that brandon are you similar ?
or do you think he going to have a little bit more ?
or whats going on ?
what weve been seeing is kaylas been giving everybody the ball .
but i am thinking dj is going to do a lot better .
i am thinking he going to get two touchdown .
he going to get one hundred yard at least with everyone else producing around him a . but i think in my opinion he going to be the allstar in the field .
for the listener that werent here and me out the other day i to reference a lot of thing to food .
and i feel food and our sport have a lot in common .
thats why tailgate go off .
and there such a joy to be at .
when i wa growing up a lot of boy in the house were all sitting down .
and mom always told me make sure everybodys got a plate .
and we are going to second .
make sure everybodys full .
and then you get into third and whatever .
obviously i had some of them too .
but pay attention to everybody else around you because we do not want anyone to not go without .
and you go with more than your share .
and i think thats where calebs at now man .
he in them shoe where he got a lot of mouth to feed .
and it aint one darius said last year where ive got a select few that i could feed early and often .
but mama might have a little extra big crock pot or something today .
she might be cooking up a little extra .
and you never know who it is going to be .
i agree with darius .
i could see exactly where his logic is at .
but i do i am anticipating potentially something above and beyond that in a streaky situation or something were to happen .
i wouldnt count it out .
but if it doesnt happen to where he exceeds high limit i understand why .
if that make any sense thats where i am thinking .
and i think we can all touch and agree on that .
and thats a good problem to have boy ?
because forever weve always been a brian or a locker or what i am trying to say or i am getting at where you have a few guy .
but then if a guy need to go out for a little bit who do you have to replace ?
i feel good about our squad .
after three year i think pohls put together a good product .
and yeah boy i think today is going to be a fun interesting game .
i am excited about it .
it is going to be one of that for the age .
there only been a handful of time where a first round pick and a first round second pick pick one and two that are quarterback matched off since the beginning of the super bowl era of one thousand nine hundred and sixty seven .
and thats a pretty interesting feat .
to say the least the nfl definitely know how to market darius ?
they knew what they were doing when they put this on the schedule brother .
yes indeed .
it is going to be very interesting to see how washington start out a far a their defense is concerned how they look to attack u today .
and i think thats going to be the determination on who and where and who the ball go to .
and help u understand a little bit better about what we got out there a far a the defense .
who to look out for darius and brandon .
who over there in washington ?
because a far a i know the guy that i knew that were the household name they are much gone in my mind .
help u out .
i know that kerrigan is gone ?
he not there anymore .
thats with u . this is a revenge game .
let u know who we got for the listener out there please bro .
you got a hall of famer bobby wagner .
let start on the sideline .
super bowl appearance with the coach a far a he went .
he wa with the atlanta falcon .
i lived here in atlanta .
had the defense born very .
he asked me on stud out there but they are young .
but the audience wa late .
darius is that whats going on here ?
is this a class case of where a coach can help elevate player that we might not typically know and they can play at a higher level than what we think they are ?
and they slide in and do damage that we are not ready for ?
is this potentially what could be happening there ?
i wouldnt say that .
but his experience and him being one of the top coordinator at this time of the game doe make a difference .
he doe understand football at a high level .
and he been very successful .
he wa successful with the dallas cowboy with the same aggressive defense scheme .
but we all understand that it come down to the player .
we have the guy in the middle .
he a hall of famer bobby wagner former seattle seahawk .
he one of the perimeter guy that play middle lineback in his league .
he the leader of this squad .
and he surrounded by a bunch of youngster .
he got st. jude and forbes a far a the corner are concerned .
but those guy st. jude always find himself in good situation most of the time .
i am bad with these guy last night or sometime .
let talk about position for now .
the defensive end they can not get to the quarterback especially with dan quinns listen style .
number ninety nine he a young guy very aggressive .
he know how to turn the corner get to the qb .
now we understand that they are missing the top defense of tackle the leader of that front line with the pet .
is it a torn pet ?
i believe it is all i heard wa chest .
but they still have some young guy in that middle thats saying hungry to make a difference. . what do you think ?
whats your take on all that brandon ?
who should we be looking out for on the defensive side ?
i know the offense get a lot of love but is that defense something that we need to look at ?
i wa going to piggyback off of what he said about bobby wagner .
thats the only person i could think of .
i do not follow that team too much and i havent been doing my homework this week honestly .
i can not say too much about that other than bobby wagner .
i think thats fair .
thats a fair statement because a lot of u know how highpowered that offense is over there and it is something that you spend much time on and you do not look at all the other stuff .
how long did darius how long did rodman fly under the radar while on the bull with jordan and all his awesomeness ?
there some player that eventually you are wait hold up a minute .
you are i am not going to be able to shoot your life .
all these thing .
and who that little eyed that keep passing the ball to the mailman ?
it is thing that that pas u by and when you start to look at these team and they are starting to build momentum and you are hold up now .
it can not be thats cooking it .
there got to be something more to it .
i am excited to see this team see what it is because at the end of the day jaden daniel and caleb in a lot of people mind is going to be around for a very long time .
and to that point i want everyone to focus on something .
we could be very a part of greatness something thats going to be around for a decade plus on both side .
it is been a while since weve had some great qbs and a good qb draft .
let enjoy the moment and marinate in it getting back to my food analogy and be happy that we have some great player out there .
do not get caught up in should we ?
should i cut a wood ?
get the fact get it that we got one of the two in the building and let celebrate and not tolerate the fact that we got who we got .
and enjoy all the other part on the team too .
do not be focused on the qb .
a lot of people do that .
there a lot more player who we witnessed the other day when we were blessed to have earl ochre on this set .
and you guy away bobby wagner linebacker do not forget about him .
he on the team .
he a field general .
he having a coach on the field .
is he the same a who he wa ?
none of u are a we age .
but what happens ?
because of repetition we get smarter and we do not have to work harder .
expect bobby to go out there and be that guy that elevates others around him .
because that is a true definition of somebody that is great .
it is not elevating yourself .
it is elevating people around you .
i do want to get into some fantasy football .
if there anything else that you guy would to talk about let chop it up quick .
let quickly i would to hear your guy prediction .
for those out there there might be a couple that do not know that darius and i are pretty much locked in this week on the same dang score .
but i did change it around a little bit the other day for you darius or marriota versus jaden .
i am going to lock back in on that one .
but let start off with brandon .
let hear what his prediction is .
my god it is winning twenty four to fourteen .
twenty fourfourteen ? .
thats thirty eight point ?
that would be the under on today .
i think the spread wa forty three i think or somewhere around there .
you are calling for a close defensive game .
and but well score ten more point .
thats interesting .
and what ?
i think i saw darius if i am not mistaken another one of our guy or listener in the comment section had a very close similar score too .
i am interested to see if that happens .
and i am not surprised if it doe .
what about you ?
it could .
i do not care what the score is .
be honest with you .
i want to win .
is there any weather condition out there darius ?
do we have any wind or is it cold out there now ?
have you guy looked at it ?
but it is in dc .
and this time of the year it is thin temperature are starting to creep down a little bit .
i am sure it may not be eighty degree it is here where i am .
but i told you i told you i am rubbing that in .
mr. top is over there .
but i am sure a long a it is mild hopefully we do not have to worry about any of the element .
but still hey man it is football baby .
a special shout out to the guy in the chat especially john who lighting it up man .
john i think i might have seen you before .
but yeah welcome back man .
and thank you for being in here .
everybody hit that and subscribe .
we got over seventy five in the chat and one .
let get those button and smash the heart and notification .
subscribe you all know what to do man .
we appreciate you bringing content and hanging out with you guy and want you guy to know that you are a part of the show .
you are the show that we do this for you .
we do not do this to talk amongst ourselves man .
you guy are great .
and john you pretty much youve got the star for the day brother .
what do you think buddy ?
what do you think about today ?
do you think that possibly we could elevate past twenty four ?
what did you say twenty fourfourteen ?
or do you think that it is going to be low scoring ?
and why did you put it that low ?
i have to come back and ask you that because i forgot early .
i feel if i did predict a higher score it would bite me .
i picked something that wa more difficult .
yeah my prediction aint the greatest but i have some fun with it .
hey thats an average game man .
have fun man. . have fun with it .
win baby .
in the mighty word of al davis win baby .
if we all could predict the future man i am pretty sure .
we have a lot of thing going on ?
gary stradamus over there .
listen i want to get into this fantasy man because it is a lot of wait hold on a second .
this in .
we got a weather report from j2k man .
he saying sunny fifty nine degree and a little wind in dc .
you at that point you can still say ice cold beer but if it drop below fifty do not .
say cold beer or say beer .
i remember in chicago man it wa a december game and this guy wa saying get your ice cold beer .
and i am bro your sale are going to be down if you are pushing cold bro .
i filled out five credit card application i could get a bunch of scar and put it all around me man .
i look a mummy because i wa a knucklehead and underdressed ?
but the other guy to my left he wa killing it dude .
he had hot cocoa .
get your hot cocoa .
warm up your hand .
i am bro ill take two of those .
sunny and fifty nine .
i think thats good .
you can get a good lather going some sweat going but i do not think you are going to get super cold .
my bos say there heat in the tool .
these guy are going to be running hard to stay warm .
we got to remember that this is an evening game .
it is not a one oclock game .
those guy by the time five thirty sixty oclock those temperature are going to creep down a little bit more .
yeah because itll be three oclock here four oclock there .
and by the time darius said by the time that sunset it is going to be getting dark .
and yeah it is going to start dropping man with a little bit of wind he said .
that wind is more influential when it drop down .
itll get a little bit nippy but we got to get used to it man .
thats bare weather baby .
the scroll say thirty seven seventeen .
thats interesting .
thats close to what darius score is and close to mine .
we are around hovering around thirty one thirty seven to seventeen around that neck of the wood .
bido want to go to the daniel playing .
and bido yes jaden daniel all report are that jaden will play .
nothing ha been confirmed but it look he a go .
and one of the lead team staff member on the team said he a tough son of a gun .
thats good to hear .
let look forward to seeing that young man play .
yeah let see what keiths got to say .
sound he playing .
washington know the defense is going to light up either way .
scroll calebs pass cut through wind butter .
keith jaylen johnson played daniel in college .
shut him down .
a lot of guy are struggling with some pick most notably one of our guy last night a guy that brandon know had a good question .
he had a question about the quarterback for seattle versus jaden daniel .
and i always look at those matchup ?
i look at defense the defense that they have to go against their health .
all that ha a little bit to do with my decision .
and usually my older brother say when i talk after i am done he say brandon start your bench and sit your starter because thats usually how it work after the game .
thats how i look at it .
let get off the top .
this is a guy that sean sean stradamus he good at making prediction and looking and scouting and whatnot .
he with four star .
we have him on wednesday night .
baltimore raven at cleveland brown .
david najoku for this season .
he ha one hundred and sixty five yard .
he average forty one.three per game .
he got one touchdown and twenty nine target .
now najoku saw a league high of fourteen target last week with amari cooper being gone .
that is very important to look at .
we were talking about injury and how they influence your decisionmaking on who to start and whatever .
and well let darius tee off on this in a second .
but he get a big upgrade at qb with james winston starting .
and i am looking forward to looking into the fact of james winston starting .
i think he still got some left in the tank man .
i the guy .
najoku ha earned thirty one first read target rate over the last two week .
thats pretty high .
and he get an extreme passfinal defense against the raven that have allowed nfl low fifty one.seven running back rushing yard per game but the most passing yard this season .
baltimore opponent have the league third highest pas rate at sixty six .
winston threw a touchdown during his only drive last week .
najoku is a top three tight end now .
they are saying by all report start najoku .
what do you say about this brandon and darius ?
they do not have a whole lot of weapon over there .
they are going to be playing some third string wherever seed wa over there a . the quarterback change is the big thing because desonant watson ha not been able to move this offense .
everyone at cleveland would have hoped .
nick chubb is back .
thats going to help james out .
or whoever the star qb is going to be this week tremendously .
for the people who drafted chubb this is the time to play him .
he scored last week .
thats all any time your guy that you draft get his own a always a plus .
against baltimore he had decent success against them .
but with the quarterback thats playing this week i think he going to change thing .
most tight end are for quarterback thats not very it is not in the upper echelon .
hey derrick quickly back to that running back .
i have him and i wa going to elevate him .
but i talked to jim miller about who i wanted to start .
because i have chubbs or i have jsn a my flex .
and he said go with jsn because chubbs is now coming out .
and it could go either way .
but the safe bet is to go jsn who going against buffalo .
i wa a little questioning that decision by jim miller .
i wanted to start chubbs .
honestly if he wa coming off an injury and only had one week behind i think he would have had a different decision behind that .
but whats your thought on that man ?
starting jsn over chubbs man .
i am going to be honest with you .
seattle going to throw the ball .
thats going down the field .
in this particular setting i would take jsn over chubb .
because buffalo defense ha been coming along the last couple of week .
but when you have a guy gino and the offense they are playing in .
because i do not think i know dk metcalf got hurt a did not he last week ?
thats a good listen .
that could thats definitely going to boost up on that .
there he might have touched on that .
very smart very smart counter .
i now thing are starting to line up .
that is a huge part .
hard to leave out .
i am sorry about that .
it sure is .
that make that make the world of a difference .
last i looked wa leading the league and passing yard too .
we already know whats going on .
he going to throw the football a lot .
he going to need some guy that he going to need to i am saying he going to need to lean on the guy that he familiar with .
jsm north and a look out for that one .
that tight end .
brandon i want to tap in quick .
whats your thought on this starting the .
no joe koo is that you think thats a smart move especially with the rocky position there in with switching quarterback and amari cooper and all that ?
i do not follow the fantasy .
i couldnt answer that question to help you out honestly .
you got to edit all these .
i do not weve got to try to go around that when we are alive because thats thats we are never mind .
but at least you are honest .
yeah but he he a good target outside outside .
what we would do is we would think outside of fantasy and think about the logistics of who is going to get the ball .
if this guy is not here obviously there going to be more target .
and then i said earlier he got a lot of target last week .
if they fall suit with that the logical the logical guess it is not a confirmed we do not know what their play is but they potentially would use this guy more because cooper out if that make sense brandon .
anyways moving forward .
also something to look at .
rashad bateman look to become a flex option of zay flower sits .
zay flower is potentially out there .
i have him on one of my family team .
this is what i want to do the show with you guy because weve got another twenty nine minute before you make your final selection .
youve got to make your selection at one thousand one hundred and thirty .
this portion ha been brought to you by underdog fantasy .
enter the promo code csp that chicago sport podcast csp .
the first thousand they match the next thousand .
they gave you a fifty percent back .
darius and i we hop on it all the time .
we all get on there and we do pretty good man .
the minimum that you can place a bet with is ten .
you do not have to throw a lot of money on to win a lot of money .
it is a good time .
it make it more enjoyable to look at thing outside of the chicago bear .
once the chicago bear is done what i am saying ?
yeah thats a flower is a big he been a little blub of a let down this year .
darius he there a change .
schematically once you add a guy a big running back back there yeah it is can you hear you at him back there ?
it is going to change .
you are going to have to offer your offense you are going to lean more and toward that direction but he had a heck of a game .
he had a heck of a game against the commander .
he did not quite get in the end zone but he wa very productive .
when you have an offense thats predicated to the run that you have to take what you get a far a past catcher and thing that .
you those are the thing that you have to be aware of when you are crafting player and also the player that you are choosing to play on a weekly basis .
to go along with what you said darius keith said he stretched thin this week .
he gotten a calf on ir .
there a lot of stuff going on .
they are playing musical chair now on the freaking titanic on a lot of team where they are shipping out and shipping in wide receiver .
thats a premium position because the quarterback are the highest price tag in the league and it is a passing league and you got to have wide receiver to catch them ball .
they are going to be the second highest price tag .
and a lot of people are realizing that they need one more target or they got a guy down this guy doe the referee at running back and you got to have receiver in order to take that take all that into consideration .
keith said problem is what wide receiver do they got ?
they are going to crowd the box on chub .
thats where we were talking earlier about going to that tight end because you got to have somebody he also said higgins echler but i am not playing echler versus barris d. now they do have jerry they have jerry judy .
they have jerry judy .
he not listening .
he not a hollow .
he not one of these super great name .
he had a great name coming out of alabama out of alabama but he production hasnt matched the height that he had .
also a quiet guy he not very he do not jump off the screen a lot of time either .
but playing with james winston or any of the backfubs he have a great rapport with him .
he good for a lot of stuff underneath .
now this is the nfl and all of these guy are great at something. ?
going to this game these defense you have to respect if you do not respect these guy theyll burn you .
i am sure they may start off in the eight man box or whatever but if you get beat down that scene but no if youll change that .
john brought a good point up to u . darius terry mcclaren .
and he ha on fantasy league and he ha zero game this season under fifty yard .
he move around a lot and cliff will put him in favorable matchup avoiding jalen .
john i you are i hope you make it to all of our fantasy man .
thanks for being there man .
we need you in the chat man .
and he absolutely .
he absolutely .
they are going to move mcclaren around because you have to try to avoid him getting under the shadow of jalen johnson .
and the way that cliff cliff kingsbury offensive ran is a lot of east to west a lot of drag route .
now if we if the quarterback break contain and get loose out there that could be an issue a because that make you susceptible to deep ball ?
he absolutely .
now john ha a very important question and they are all trying to make their pick .
well try to get through these a quickly a possible .
i do want to ask brandon a quick question about montgomery because thats the next player well target .
and we have a lot of information of montgomery since he wa a prior bear and iowa football player iowa state .
he say i am five and two in fantasy league facing another five and two .
john i am the reciprocal of that .
i am very jealous of your five and two .
battle for first place .
thats awesome .
he starting per perty over jd five this week .
whats that ?
thats a jaden dane .
maybe the five is a it is number. . or rb should he start a hubbard or stevenson ?
he thinking stevenson. . now this is what i do not know .
who who who who who who who who who who who who who who who who the patriot playing against this week. . keith who are the patriot up against this week ?
or wa no that wa john question .
knowledge knowledge on team .
hey thanks for coming back brother .
travis homer is our fullback outside the red zone .
our goal package i would guess thats interesting because i almost gave up against travis .
and now that i know that he our fullback and we released our fullback in the blaston game which i thought wa a decent guy .
that thats interesting to know .
thanks for giving u that knowledge knowledge .
keith said he definitely told me something. ?
it is possible .
i did see him punch one in a few week back and i wa wondering he in on our team .
he said the jet is who they are up against .
now remember remandre stevenson lost .
he lost he lost a bunch of carry because he ha a family issue .
take that into consideration .
and he wa injured but he had more he had probably ball security within the last couple of week a . and remandre he said remandre stevenson versus who ?
hold on hold on hold on .
i think it wa the running back for hubbard hubbard .
chubba hubbard that carolina situation .
and they are back they are back to the young fella .
they drafted too. . pretend crew checking in .
whats up dan ?
i got my hat on backwards this day .
i am going to turn it around because it is a crucial catch that anyways at a respect for you and your crew dan which i wa a part of .
somebody said all noon game sucked this week .
thats a possibility since the bear are playing at three .
ill have to say yes far .
getting back to david montgomery brandon .
interesting tail .
i never wanted to go .
he got my favorite number five on his jersey .
he got three hundred and eighty two yard this year average and sixty three.seven .
thats pretty good when you are considering a timeshare and you are looking at somebody in the red zone to punch it in and he scored on average up until last week .
one touchdown a game .
maybe they gave that guy a little break since he wa banged up the week before but he averaging an over four point yard which is huge .
thats a lot .
yard per catch is six and twenty one .
no no six touchdown .
six touchdown .
i wa twenty one touchdown twenty six touchdown .
and a long a a twenty one yard .
i i he he been at practice this whole week brandon .
and that guy a workhorse .
i think even if he a little banged up brian say a real player play ?
the titan are not an easy run defense though but the lion ran for one hundred and forty four yard against a tough viking d last week .
thats encouraging for them ?
not encouraging for u . james jameson williams is out and the lion have the league highest implied team total of twenty eight and a half point man .
this week detroit is also the biggest favor with eleven and a half on the board .
i think it is a favorable especially starting against starting mason rudolph and likely missing both of it top wide out .
i think that you would start montgomery .
wouldnt you agree ?
even if you he not your goto cowbell he still look to have a lot of yard .
wouldnt she say brandon ?
i would think .
he a workhorse man .
and go i know he turned he turned his ankle last week .
but i think he good to go .
we all know david montgomery is a soldier man .
he gon na get out there no matter what unless unless the limb missing or something that he ready to play .
now here an interesting factoid guy .
moving forward the lion defense is a top three to start this week .
keep your hand to your hat in case you got him out there .
if he in or thats in the free agency or you got a deion by moving forward .
cj stroud man unbelievable character good talent dual threat qb .
far he got onesix hundred and sixty three yard this year .
he averaging twenty three and a half yard sixty six completion .
he got ten touchdown and a qb rating of ninety four.nine man .
and for john i am sorry to interrupt you try for john .
i would go with hover this week. . go with hubbard .
thats a huge huge loss but he in a good spot to bounce back from one of the worst game of his career last week .
stroud ha gotten eight.seven yard per average and three hundred and eleven passing yard with twenty two total touchdown over eleven game during his career at home .
he also owns a six td to zero interception ratio over three game versus colt and those matchup darry said earlier matter .
theyve also have allowed the fifth most schedule adjusted fantasy point to get back to season .
if you got him out there start stroud make it make it happen .
put them on put them on the board .
i do not think we need to say anything more about that .
it pretty much speaks for itself .
remember game there we got twenty le than twenty minute to get through all these guys. . i am trying to skip through some of them but get to the one that we might need to go back and forth about .
please forgive u guy .
this is our second fantasy before pick on sunday .
green bay packer against the jacksonville deck .
jaguar is very important game for u . i am hoping jacksonville can sneak one in because i want the guy from up north to lose .
i am not saying that it is going to happen .
i am wish thinking they are saying to start romeo dowel .
and i am thinking that this is very interesting because i wa thinking about that other receiver thats been hot lately but they are saying start romeo dowel he got three hundred and twelve yard this year .
and fifty two yard average thirty four target twenty three reception and two touchdown .
what do you say about that darius ?
diles ha been coming on the last couple of week but i know you are talking about reed jen reed .
he been he been there guy all year but going up against jacksonville you can not go wrong man .
they give up a lot of big play .
i they allow the most for outside receiver .
you are you are a hundred percent agree about that .
and even if one cook it is possible both could cook .
that go to piggybacking into that .
i would say also start jordan love too .
i remember sean wa saying start i think it wa at least two hundred and fifty .
if not two hundred and sixty i could be mistaken .
i have a screenshot of who sean think to start on underdog fantasy .
maybe you could pull that up .
darius i am not sure but i know that that wa in our group chat .
but that that seems logical .
if anything we can hope for a dog fight with high point and potentially i do not know the jaguar ride hot and win .
thats it is what do you think brandon ?
you think there even a shot at this or no ?
jaguar the one in. . cool man .
that wa nice and easy man .
thats going to be a fun thats going to be a little funky game .
because the jacksonville can move the football .
they they vary inconsistent in office .
he very sent me a screenshot of who he got on his bench .
it is his he you want to know what his team name is this .
now this is not me speaking .
i am reading. . this is keith .
can i tell him what your team name is ?
ill put a pin in this .
jaden jaden waddle is the next guy we are going to talk about boy .
arizona cardinal at miami dolphin the desert the desert cardinal go down there into my into miami .
now whats that ?
it is going to be a shootout man .
it is going to be a shootout .
. . two hundred and sixty nine yard .
jaden waddle forty four.eight average thirty target twenty two reception zero touchdown .
what do you guy got to say about this here with jaden ?
start them .
two is back .
i can go ahead and do it .
two is back .
you think he going to be rested and ready to go ?
or do you think he going to have a little a little gunshot because gunshot because of the third concussed arizona is a great game .
if youve been struggling at the qb position or not getting back .
arizona is a great game to warm up .
get your foot back in the water with .
knowledge wanted to know who baltimore play .
i felt we touched on that earlier .
good mind over there .
but yeah what do you call it ?
miami ha averaged fewer point per game than the last two winless team in the bryce young led panther but well get a huge boost with to his return .
a you said waddle average forty seven and a half receiving yard zero touchdown over twelve game without to to a but he average seventy five.two receiving yard with all nineteen of his touchdown over forty one game with them .
he eats darius say he going to eat with to u . look for them to connect look to be somebody that he very comfortable with and if you have him it sound it is a must start .
mike mcdaniel call again by different tool and a lot of them .
he said i can go ahead and say what his team name is .
it is called sikwan d nut .
we see something this is fun. . it is fun boy .
he show it show me a team dude .
i i need him to draft for me next year because i do not know what i wa doing .
most people think that when i draft it is an auto draft ?
but he got cj stroud barkley mason hopkins .
he starting hopkins .
he a chief .
whats that brother ?
he a chief now .
yeah. . i the playbook familiarity but you got the goat passing to you .
that help ?
yeah thats his last night .
shakir he a sneaking one man. . cause there d and freaking aubrey from dallas .
dude this guy a freaking legend .
keith you need to be on our fantasy every week man between you and darius brandon and i can coast on autopilot dude cruise control .
this guy got it going on bro .
yeah shakir ha a lot of he josh allen in him he the longest he the longest longest tender receiver over there. ?
mm . . since since since fourteen is left allen ha a good rapport with shakir very sneaky pick man .
now now look at he showing me .
somebody else is showing me their team .
it is show one show off .
let get into that after we go over the pick .
deanna want to show me his now .
anyways let get into this .
this is interesting .
let break it down .
weve already heard from mr. darius lock the lock heart .
exactly what to do here but let break this down .
let see what they say about this .
three hundred and seventy four yard ?
sixty two.three yard average which is pretty pretty good .
not high but decent ?
four point yard per catch .
not i am not excited about that .
and you got three touchdown with a thirty three yard long .
it is a running back .
you are you you cut loose on some of those .
thats what i am thinking .
game plan you are playing with the rookie quarterback man .
that make a difference .
yeah you got to do your check down and you a receiver .
a far a a running back you aint going to go deep but what you do is you look for the yak the yard after catch ?
and it do not feel the gym with that defense that defense feel no rookie going to come in there and throw the ball all over .
it is been let down of that .
ive got them on my fantasy and they are .
theyve had some tough matchup man going against them .
pretty good qbs last couple of week though .
darius i hope you are brother .
the game script limited stevenson touchdown last week .
he should be healthier after returning to full practice this thursday .
a few day ago stevenson hasnt even fumbled in back to back game .
thats huge .
jet opponent have averaged the eighth most rushing attempt in the league .
stevenson ha gotten five.two yard per carry and average eighty five rushing yard and one touchdown over two game and drake may give the offense life .
the jet have allowed the 12th most scheduled adjusted fantasy point to running back .
we were talking about tough team and all that but there some tough running back when excluding receiving .
stevenson can be started if needed .
the patriot are a touchdown underdog and have a low league total but running back is thin this week .
i see i see the other side about starting stevenson .
i also see where you could start hubbard also ?
yeah i do not think it is a wrong answer but i looked at the matchup and a rookie court where a rookie quarterback going into facing new york .
it seems they are going to stack the box up on them .
cause the paper is not filled with weapon either .
keith said that both jet safety are out .
thats huge .
three hundred and fifteen yard three touchdown one pick .
let move on to darius neck of the wood at lanagh tampa bay .
they are saying to start rashad .
i think it is rashad with two a white .
two hundred and twenty seven yard three hundred and thirty seven.eight yard average yard per catch is three.seven .
no touchdown and fifty six long .
bucky bucky irving is dealing with a foot injury that could promise .
this is better .
thats a sweet while chris godwin and mike evans are out .
white and sean tucker will see an expanded role in a matchup that should be fast paced tampa game have averaged a whopping fifty five.six point this season .
and white should see even more target than usual .
he the next option this week .
man ill tell you what i wish i had rashad this week .
it sound he going to be the bell cow man .
yeah he definitely is .
but take also take a look at why receiver mcmillan .
and i think thats it is that sterling shepherd .
also the tight end number eighty eight autonomous .
i can not i am bad with these guy name .
a top autotoman .
look at him a . yeah .
ive been seeing his name and going back to what wa the name you said a little bit ago mcmillan you were talking about mcmillan a little while ago man and what ?
i should listen to you because he wa available and i did not go .
maybe i think i did and i did not pick him up which doesnt make sense because if i am in last place i should be first in the way .
wait whats going on man ?
my math aint math garius .
yeah mcmillan he he had chance to slow but he ha a problem with drop but this week i do not think they have much of a choice .
if he open they have to go to him because they are there .
they are two stud are out man .
that this is a term .
this is the time when the term next man up is very critical .
and this next segment is brought to you by tc world of wonder your headquarters for all your dream chicago sport jersey and memorabilia .
darius and i have hit the table early and often with these guy .
they got good quality product thirty day warranty .
it includes shipping and tax .
everything that you get and you get put in you tell tom about our you are with csp chicago sport podcast and he get you a discount off the rip .
good quality dude man .
in state too small town business man .
i back him a hundred percent .
tc world of wonders.com or a inbox me and ill get you tom direct number but good dude .
the next take on my list i swear darius is reading neither my mind which should be pretty easy and weird at the same time .
or he reading my show note .
it say jalen mcmillan is a sleeper especially if he move to the slot .
boom there you go .
let move on to the philadelphia eagle at cincinnati bengal .
what do you feel about this brand ?
and what do you feel about the eagle and the bengal ?
now to me it look a shit show because the eagle are pretty much a shell of themselves and the bengal they won one game that not still making me a believer .
i am i am worried they are saying start t higgins but i heard t higgins is out in the chat .
we are not we are going to move on past this one but i would to hear your take on this game .
man you said man both these team it is hard .
who going to come out with that win ?
they are both struggling now .
but t higgins is out though .
why wouldnt i start him ?
yeah exactly .
what yeah youd have to look at somebody else in that situation with with he being out and i do not know who the next man up is .
camp in nasa name number eighty .
start last night start with a i he going to be he a big he a bigger style receiver similar to higgins but i do not think he ha higgins a opposed to this .
no boy in boy in tennessee .
and no it is number eighty .
last night start with a i i can not pronounce it .
man these guy in the chat they will bail u out early and often man especially a far a i did not know he wa out .
i know yesterday i seen that he wa questionable but if he out they have office office for since then that is not an issue .
they have joe burrow have they have little office line issue but he still delivering the football defense .
i think we can score against that defense even though they have two good pas rusher everything else is a lot .
they leave a lot what i am saying ?
to be desired out there on defense .
everyone they played against ran ran up the number on them pretty much .
knowledge say a white dude rookie .
it is coming .
it is coming .
hey darius brandon i think next show we need to start at ten oclock .
thats my bet .
i thought that we could get through intent from ten thirty to eleven thirty .
i thought we could get through all this because with the bear we can easily get through the bear but thats one team that we are talking about .
you got to get through the whole nfl and all these guy .
you guy start a little earlier especially if we want to get these guy a little bit of help before the eleven thirty shotgun what i am saying ?
thats my bad .
we are learning a we go guy but i appreciate all your help .
make sure you guy hit that and subscribe button .
hit the notification bell leave a good review .
you all know what to do .
and a couple of day ago we had a hall of famer golden jacket .
brian ehrlacher wa on the show man .
freaking brick wall duty wa on our show man .
go check that out .
look that hit that button .
hit that not notification bell .
i think that he will be on in the future .
hopefully near future .
we are going to do some thing with them .
i am excited about that .
but yeah let get back into fantasy .
i wanted to give that shameless plug to our to our crew and our team .
man quickly j k dobbin man i am disappointed .
i feel bad for this guy .
the injury and stuff especially baltimore a a team man .
i remember we were three or four deep and i am there no way .
and they seem to always find a guy the niner .
they always seem to find a running back or maybe it is our offensive line and their coaching .
i do not know but j k dobbin is now in los angeles .
and i wa looking for him to show up and show out .
i do not know whats going to happen man .
now he only averaging three point yard per carry since getting over a nine point nine over the first two game of the season .
and the charger are touchdown home favorite against a reeling saint team starting spencer rattler which is a bad move man .
game script should be favorable .
what do you guy say about this man ?
he on my team .
he on my team and i am starting them .
he got he had an injury in between those in between week three and week four if i am not mistaken .
and sandy los angeles is dealing with a challenge of philosophy .
there it is .
thanks keith .
but again but this week i think my man from georgia he wa banged up too .
makaaki ha emerged to be the number one receiver .
and then also the tight end for la disney if i am saying it correctly disney he should receive a whole lot of rep a a makaaki shell open up and shell open up thing for j.k. dobbin to do a thing .
hardball belief in running the football .
i he love to run in the football .
weve seen that over in michigan weve seen that time and time again .
he love running the football and setting up that quarterback .
very smart call .
i agree with that .
thanks again there for that we saw go up man .
got over a hundred in chat .
brandon what do you say about this man ?
it seems a no brainer to start j.k. dobbin bro ?
thats what it sound to me .
id start them .
keith say mckonkey is money in the slot .
there you go bro .
hit that slot machine money maker .
let move on quick to buffalo bill at seattle seahawks .
cooper wa on the field for thirty four of josh allen dropbacks during his first game in buffalo but he had a forty two tprr and led the team in fantasy point .
seattle top corner rick woolen and trey brown are banged up and or out in cooper role is sure to grow in sunday fast paced matchup .
cooper can be a top twenty wide receiver moving forward after the huge upgrade at quarterback .
what do you guy got to say about this ?
yeah look for a mark cooper to see a lot of the field today .
last week wa his first week in buffalo they gradually brought him in but he did score a touchdown for those owner of him .
that wa a good thing .
i expect to see a lot more production out here today a he give more familiar with the offense and josh allen is going to be josh allen .
they have also learned to run the football a lot more .
we should open amari up on the play action a . no yeah i agree with you .
and it make sense to do that .
ive always been a fan of his and and i wish him the best .
and i think he in a good place now .
once i saw that he he moved in a buffalo .
i said good thats that he he would do good with at least i think he would do good with allen .
i do not know all the detail but thinking forward thinking here an interesting thing .
our next is brought to you by river street cavern .
most delish chicago most delicious and fun sport diving dining experience had to river street cavern and they got chicago biggest game man check them out .
and they are saying that we need to sit .
geno smith will be missing dk metcalf and get a run funnel buffalo defense outdoors .
this is interesting .
let let hear what they have to say about this .
i am not in a grudge at all with this .
i do not this is i am not backing this this thought. . allen scored two touchdown during his last game but he the wide receiver and nx 49th wide receiver ranked in expected fantasy point .
allen could return from the buy healthier after playing through a heel injury but it is possible .
rom dunze see a rookie postpied bump a . i am thinking that i do not know why they would want to sit geno smith because he unless you have unless you have someone a more high caliber quarterback .
i do not i wouldnt understand why you would do that .
but hey man your team i do not think thats why though .
you have to look at both side and thats what we try to do .
i do not i can not agree with that side at all .
and it doesnt sound curious to u either but he said it is your team .
i skipped ahead to that bear washington game .
they are saying sit keenan allen .
i am also not agreeing with this one .
i think he going to show out but let see what whats what we got in the note .
allen scored the two touchdown .
he could do better with his coming back from the heel injury .
i understand why they sent that stick keenan but i do not agree with it. . exactly .
caleb williams is unquestionably shown growth and we could continue to improve but his last three game against three easiest matchup in the league he gotten six yard per average and taken eleven sack with the two.four touchdown to interception ratio on the road to open up his career .
this matchup wa moved to prime time but the total sits forty three point .
thanks to marcus mario to likely starting for jaden daniel .
look for those point to grow .
i would bet the over if it is still at forty three because of that because of that .
i think it wa set thinking that this tough kid is not going to play .
if he play i think look to see more point out on the field washington defense is also dramatically improved allowing the seventh few year epa play over the last three game .
the commander have also yielded the fourth fewest fantasy point to the slot over the last month .
allen deserves bench consideration because of being at the slot .
but we also know that kenan allen is a swiss army knife man .
you could put him at x y and z. it do not matter .
he going to eat .
here the thing .
washington play a heavy man concept on defense .
they are heavy man and they feel they feel that kenan is a lot more productive in the zone because he find hole in the zone sits there and the ball is saying find him .
thats why i think people are are heavy on sitting them which is understandable .
but if anybody but it all depends on how your team is set up at the end of the day .
if you can afford it if you can afford to sit somebody kenan allen then but what i am saying ?
i wouldnt sit them for anybody .
obviously you guy know that i need them on my team the way i spoke about my team .
i am not going to tell you to set freaking kenan. . jesus piece .
keith is saying yeah but who is washington played the bear have played ?
good point .
they played boston .
they played baltimore .
they played they played tampa and they played the giant but the giant defense is not terrible .
i did not realize that .
i thought they were still stalwart or maybe is it their run defense ?
that raven is i told guy before raven have the truck or have trouble with speed .
they have speed when they have speed .
they are going to get speed in their secondary to have trouble with it .
and this kingsbury offense you got a lot of little speedy guy around there .
we can not say that because it did not matter if they played tampa in week ten a long a they had number thirteen over there a long a tampa ha number thirteen there .
and they had his number two there they were going to get that against washington regardless .
he say tampa tampa week one week one is a toss .
i am not sure if he meant toss or loss but no he feel everything everybodys even week one .
and thats not thats not true. . here here something else we got to get into now .
that is one of the guy that i traded away him and t higgins .
i traded away for the running back for gibbs .
that wa my trade t higgins and javante for gibbs .
and i thought that wa a smart move because he the cowbell ?
he get a lot of run and he get a lot of reception and he did a great job last year but they are not passing to him a much .
and it look a whole different game plan .
when when montgomery wa banged up i he obviously cooked ?
but now that assuming that montgomery is healthier maybe he take some of that away but getting back into javante he averaging five point yard per carry and sixteen.eight point over opportunity the last four game .
he get a prime matchup against the panther defense allowing by far most fantasy point to run back this season .
bronco are double digit home favorite against a bryce young led carolina team thats seated in the nfl high thirteen rushing score .
denver ha highest implied total twenty six.five point .
williams is a top fifteen running back this week .
thats had williams this week .
williams williams is coming along too .
i think he suffered an injury earlier earlier in the season .
and then i think to get to get the quarterback acclimated to the nfl sean payton sean payton leading on a heavy pas .
offense for him .
the first couple of week he wa throwing a ball that he wa throwing .
he had many past attempt .
he ha come along and again what better way what better game and what better team to see if you are struggling ?
or if you want to what i am saying boost your number .
then it seemed carolina .
and now we are going to talk about sitting chub hubbard who been terrific but is terrible situation .
carolina will be starting young on an offense missing deontay johnson and adam theland against the denver defense allowing an nfl low four.four yard per play .
the panther have an anemic sixteen.five point implied team total and hubbard ha averaged one hundred and thirty one yard from scrimmage and nineteen.four fantasy point in three full game without young in the season he averaged fifty nine.three and nine.nine fantasy point during four game with him .
i would say sit start chub because there not a whole lot of weapon .
i understand the matchup you talked about earlier going against that stout defense where he may not be able to eat brother .
chubb is a chubb is a stud man .
and i said unless you have in the fantasy world chubb is considered a stud and then he said unless you have someone thats equivalent to him ?
but i am going to sit nick chubb for anybody .
whats that ?
i wouldnt sit nick chubb for chubba hubbard .
no no no they werent saying sit nick chubb for chubb they were talking about chubb the whole time. . yeah .
cause they are going against denver and the the stout defense and thelans out and freaking up .
and dehante johnson out who dropped the ball a lot when i dripped .
i traded for him last year because i always do this .
i always get a guy jamar chase and tim and higgins .
and then last year i got dehante and pickens .
i am i got two receiver on same team and you got by week and someone going to eat and sometimes somebody not .
it is it is ridiculous .
i do not know why i do it .
i two good receiver .
if you need somebody to lean on if you desperate carolina ha a rookie out of south carolina number seventeen might have to pick him up or you lean on the sander tight end sander from all of texas. . number zero .
thats if you are in i am saying no man land and you need somebody put there. . yeah .
you got to have a some backup and they are a lot .
some of some of u are in that situation bro because there a lot of there a lot of injury this year man .
already guy are getting banged up and stuff .
and i thought that this whole thing about minus in a preseason game wa going to keep guy healthy .
i do not think football is football regardless .
the next game say kansa city chief at the raider start patch mahomes .
now mahomes ha been a shell of himself .
had receiver or anything that .
he got more interception than he doe touchdown .
and quite honestly when you are looking at all this it show how legit .
their coach andy reed is man .
this guy can get it done even when it is back up against the wall and they are plagued with injury .
i think if we had this many injury with chicago bear wed be losing our freaking mind any team would .
you got the goat over there darius .
mahomes is likely to start performing up to his early adp expectation moving forward but he a solid start this week .
he due for touchdown regression while ranking sixth in red zone pass but twenty two touchdown especially with the addition of deandre .
now deandre can cook in the end zone .
he is a red red zone target .
and i look for him to get some jump ball and get some touchdown up .
i am happy for mahomes that he finally ha somebody that can help him get that going because xavier worthy a a rookie good player but he not no de hop man .
dehop is going to make that team look entirely different man .
and he going to make worthy look better too .
cause he worthy worthy between travis kelsie and hopkins .
defense have to respect those name because of their resume .
that mean worthy could be wide open a whole lot .
hey darius let take a trip down met narrative street now memory lane .
the raider beat mahomes in kansa city on christmas day ?
the last time his team met and they mocked him with the kermit the frog puppet in training camp .
remember that ?
mahomes responded it and he say it will get handled .
he going to take care of business .
it will get handled .
and his personal trainer tweeted we will remember .
he i think mahomes is out for blood in a revenge on sunday bro .
hey hey it aint going to be an easy killing .
and it will not be an easy killing .
a while than this than raider today .
he going to wow .
it will not be easy .
you are killing the wild in the raider today .
on on your what do you call it ?
all of your great clip man .
thats the one thats going to be the one that stand out. . thered be your mount rushmore clip there .
thats a good one .
for sure man .
we are clipping that one .
here here something interesting .
i want you guy to look at alexander and madison .
man that guy looked good .
he look good in minnesota. . he look different though .
he he look a lot more explosive .
and when what what he called helped me out the running back that is absolutely i do not see him anywhere .
the one thats playing now .
is he playing somewhere ?
no they play thursday .
no no no no i am talking about he wa there for for a few year .
he wa there starting running back for a few year .
for quite a few year man .
i am trying to .
dalvin cook he with the cowboy .
he play today .
dalvin got banged up a lot .
every time dalvin got banged up madison came in and he went off .
i am wow i wa looking forward to alexander .
i thought that he potentially would stay with but they shipped both of them out .
but they are saying to sit alexander madison who will be dealing with a negative game script against the chief defense allowing the fewest fantasy point we are talking about fantasy point guy to running back with a wide margin .
no one ha reached even sixty yard rushing yard against kansa city chief this season .
thats interesting to note because i did not know that .
did that ?
there is .
i had an idea but i watched them against the falcon .
the falcon had a lot of success with them doing a run but they had a twoheaded monster with with thunder and lightning down here .
but i listened brock bower if any raider fan i am pretty sure guy that picked them up what i am saying ?
it is on the in the tight end space .
i got one thing this year .
brock bower is definitely a guy to to look into .
did chief had a top two defense last three year .
it is also worth noting that they are one of the top highest scoring defense in the nfl .
and thats why it is important .
even when you have the goat on your team defense win championship .
this team including the coach is being carried by the defense and the head coach while they are being decimated on the offensive side of the field ball .
they called karim hunt .
he wa sitting on the freaking bench and said hey bro you still remember the playbook ?
what are you doing ?
sitting chilling watching maury. . come on up man .
come on up .
he he kicked the dust off and he he did good his first week .
it is what they can do man .
they are freaking andy reed is brilliant man but that defense she he said cheese had top two defense in the last three year .
and chris is a monster .
we got two more game we want to talk about .
i am sure dare is going to have some good nugget of the day with these two in dallas cowboy at san francisco 49ers and the giant at pittsburgh steelers .
well start off with the dallas cowboy at san francisco 49ers .
they are saying to sit deck prescott .
it depends on who you have on the bench .
i i that that hasnt been great this season but from fantasy standpoint he going to throw the ball and he going to throw it a lot .
now daven cook is going to make his debut today against the 49ers .
that could help him out or it could be a lot of the same .
you got these older running back man who been who been very inconsistent over year but either catching on to a team or getting reps. period with him and zeke elliott .
and then you have dotto thats there cd lamb going to get the ball man .
let listen for the weakest part of the 49ers is that secondary .
everyone know that .
unless they are going to double and triple team cd lambo even then thats going to force that ball down the field .
i do not see why .
if for whatever reason i would think that dak would be somebody go to when in term of being a starting quarterback on their team .
but if you have somebody else thats a better option than dak which would be weird why unless it is a two quarterback fantasy league i would still start dak but there some noticeable point and well go over those in the moment .
well jump into the new york giant pittsburgh steelers where they are saying to sit or i am sorry start najee hair .
dallas often showed big improvement after the last buy last season .
and the cowboy hope the same happens this year .
they ranked 20th in scoring after leading the league in two thousand and twenty three but press guard ha finished a a top ten qb once over six game this season .
and san francisco opponent have the fourth lowest passer rating of seventy eight.seven .
the cowboy have the eighth lowest implied team total of twenty.five point during a week with many qb alternative .
there there there the other side to it .
i could see that .
we got to look at forty nine or two on the office man brought party out without iu who blew his acl .
it is the acl or achilles wanted to but he out for the year .
he going to have to lean on guy jenin and pyrrhusaw and it is it is kiddo plan this week .
he he been on the injury list almost every game .
i do not know if i do not have them .
debos debos ha been struggling debo ha been struggling with he had a pneumonia situation correct ?
he in the hospital .
they are going to be run heavy i guess .
and dallas is terrible against the run boy .
ill tell you. . man ill tell you what let let get into the giant at pittsburgh .
now let me tell you this one thing boy .
i am or boy cause brandon ha it came back yet .
i havent hit bridge or scoreboard but anyways yeah .
the giant the giant a a whole ha impressed me especially with their quarterback being a flat out bum why they kept him when they had option to go ahead and grab somebody else in this draft is beyond me .
other than is there something to the the fact of maybe it have a little bit of pride at stake or something and and keeping him and saying i can make this work .
thats why you think it wa there .
i think they paid them .
the fact that they paid them and they they paid them a lot .
and i guess they felt they had a lot more pressing need at other position and they felt if they felt a lot of the bear man felt with justin they felt if they can put a lot more around him hell be better .
listen daniel jones ha a playoff victory .
he meant to the playoff .
he ha a playoff victory .
it is not the only thing only thing missing from him is consistency and being healthy .
and i think a lot of his inconsistency ha come from him being hurt .
i do not i do not him but maybe thats what i am not in love with .
but if you are in a situation the giant you have to you paid them much money you have to lean on them for a while .
sometimes we forget that the money doe have to do with it .
but ive seen where some big money get cut and they absorb it and that there some big big baller move out there where this what pack your bag .
and that money they are done .
usually when it happens that way they have someone else in mind .
they do not they do not have anybody else over there .
and this is a big problem a systemic problem .
i think this is the start of looking at everything a a whole with the new york giant .
call it what it is .
they made the wrong move by signing daniel and not paying barclay .
thats in hindsight man .
i get rid of barclay .
yeah but theyve had them theyve had them for long and they havent been he hasnt made them what they want them to be .
at the time when at the time when they decided to sign daniel jones he had came off a playoff victory .
they felt he wa on the incline up the up climb .
what ? .
he had he had a decent year .
he had three thousand yard year .
he wa very his image interception were very low .
and he looked man .
i want to touch on what j2k said because it is before the game .
we still got a few hour but it is important because this is a chicago bear show and this is good to know .
washington rookie left tackle .
brandon coleman is out today .
he wa the starter .
thats thats important to know especially for our defense and protection a far a jaden doe that move ?
doe that move the needle at all ?
whether jared jaden start or mariota what would you say about that blindside ?
would that move for you at all ?
darius if you are the you are the coach ?
if i am thinking about the future then i would see it .
jaden but i always if you want to win you want to have your best player on the field now .
washington is the first place in the division .
and they want to do whatever it take to keep that going .
in order to do that you have to have your best player on the field .
if he ready to play let them roll .
now with the with the left tackle being out listen dan is very lucid .
he going to find a way to get around the pocket get outside the pocket and get loose and he not going to sit back there and hold it for a long time .
if you watch him he going to sit back there for a minute .
if that first read is not there more than likely you are going to try to get up out of there .
we do not have to worry about the table tennis face daniel said that now .
and what ?
he kill you with rushing get yard too because thats what i am saying .
if he get up out of that pocket and start making play with his foot .
it is it is very listen it is very what i am saying ?
it is a huge let down to a defense .
when it reacts and whether he going to slide if he going to run out of bound or what he going to do with these rib you are going to protect him and be gun shy about getting any hit .
you are definitely going to want to run but what do you do ?
it is going to be interesting to see how he play with this .
ill be looking into that .
thats important to me to oversee what he doe .
i said i feel he going to be around the league for a while .
yeah let check it out .
unless he absorbs a lot of injury and the rib is first to many i hope it doesnt happen but something to take a pain and look at for sure man .
he not trying to anything this man .
he dealt with this and lsu a . yeah .
he had a rib injury before .
it is one against it wa it wa later in the year they planned a conference schedule and he got hurt but he stayed in the game .
staying the game and listen sec is where the physical defense are and he made it through it .
he going to have injury this because he run .
he run with determination but he not very he not very big guy .
he a tall guy but it is very very light .
light you are very very small frame .
i think he need to bulk up put some some weight on for sure .
getting back to the giant pittsburgh steelers start najee harris .
george pickens get a huge fantasy boost with russell wilson starting .
he sharing snap with jalen warren but percentage of run against the light box is nearly double compared to his time with justin field .
the giant have allowed the ninth most scheduled adjusted fantasy point to running back and the steelers are six point home favorite .
monday night they are saying starting najee harris make it .
i added one to my team last night if i am not mistaken because i feel he going to be saying he going to be pretty good after backfield catch a pass on check now such thing of that nature .
but yeah pickens she ever see the boost because the secondary for the giant those corner in in in particular now the giant a far a the pas rush they get they can get there .
they got some guy up front also with the linebacker .
they are pretty good but i think what hurt wa hurting the giant more than anything is that offensively man .
it is twelve oclock .
the the noon game are starting .
you guy can get into sunday .
weve all been waiting this whole week not for the bear but the nfl and the five month of football go fast .
he say he see a upset giant may win .
getting back to the the bear game .
he said he could see daniel staying in the pocket more .
it should free up a spy linebacker for u . thats good news .
i that .
stay in the pocket more and not running out because you got to protect them rib .
ac adam say got ta hit them rib when they get to him .
thats football man .
thats the name of his strategy .
you got to go for for whats easy .
and thats easy there .
remember guy the zebra doesnt change the stripe .
when you out there on that football field you go to instinct .
yeah for sure .
whats going on .
hey the only thing we can do if you decide to creep out there is make them pay a much a possible .
i think we are all in agreement with that .
if it is a resounding let get after him type approach with our fan at least .
key say neighbor is back lawrence in burn and thabadou will get to wilson .
listen getting to wilson is one thing but trusting daniel jones versus thats still a defense man .
try i am trying to go to trying to stay on on topic with the bear and then they get in the chat and switch back over to what we were talking earlier .
it is a weird what we are figuring this fantasy out there .
hey man for the people out there if you got a couple of dollar to blow what i am saying ?
hey if you are unlucky go for it .
make sure you hit that underdog fantasy and put in the promo code csp boy .
i want to lean with ac here man but man jacksonville ha been bad against the past .
they do not go bad .
where did i put my pick at ?
wa that the wa that the main thread ?
i think no i think i put them in both .
you put them in both .
i want to go over those quickly guy .
that it i said the promo code for underdog fantasy .
i should have uploaded this picture and put it on here .
for everybody to look at matter of fact let me do that now .
darius permission go ahead and keep these guy entertained while i do that quickly we can go over this fantasy stuff here .
i i put in two two i got two wager .
yes well go over that .
ac a a bear fan i do want green bay to lose this game .
and i think jacksonville offensively can submit a challenge but defensively man jacksonville is it is an undisciplined route .
and they they are bad man .
they are bad .
say brandon you you posted your pick from yesterday .
the one you sent yesterday .
i am going to do it now .
yeah keep them entertained for a minute .
and i am all give me two more minute .
a far a our bear people caught and people call me crazy but i feel if we keep name in their pocket and force them to throw that ball deep well have a lot of success .
let me see who wa in the chat .
lawrence and burn and tivito .
they may get the wilson .
keith you got me thinking though i do not trust daniel jones .
shout out to everybody thats participated today .
hope you guy enjoy this first lady game .
it is it is twelve and one oclock slate .
and get ready to be ready for some football .
three your time for your time for my time .
three oclock your time for my time .
commander versus bear .
here our first pick that weve got on here .
underdog high and low .
thats what it is .
it is pretty simplistic .
you pick who going to go high .
who going to go low .
i picked cj stroud to get over one.five touchdown .
if it get two touchdown passing then you get that pick .
and each pick that you get it multiplies .
you can go up to forty five.sixty four time with some of these and even higher .
sikwan barkley i got over seventy nine and a half rushing yard .
and if i get that i went high on that not low .
i went a high on all these .
but bajon robinson sixty five and a half yard .
i feel a little bit more comfortable about that than sikwan .
but i think thats a good thing .
i feel a little bit more comfortable about that than sikwan .
but cincinnati been stinking up the joint .
thats why i went ahead and went with that .
cd lamb i went seventy seven and a half .
jalen hertz and thats in receiving yard obviously .
because you can get both .
you can do a wager darius know this .
you can do a wager where you get receiving and rushing yard .
and that would be a higher number in the 90 or something that .
whatever versus seventy seven and a half .
jalen hertz two hundred and twenty one.five yard passing .
thats very thats very easy to do .
thats pedestrian type number a far a a quarterback .
i felt comfortable going that way .
same with joe buro two hundred and thirty nine and a half .
i felt very comfortable with that .
hence joe buro when he hot he can sling it and go over three hundred .
but twenty two hundred and thirty nine.five is logical .
again this is some a strategy .
i do not have any insider .
it is me trying to go with it and having a little bit of fun .
marchase sixty nine and a half again pedestrian for him .
if he can do that great .
ive seen him go much higher than that .
i felt comfortable with that .
field goal kicker this one got me but i went ahead because field goal kicker have been doing a lot this year and two.five .
are not you the one that wa telling me wa that you ?
if you put in the promo code csp again that chicago sport podcast they will match your first thousand dollar and then the second theyll match half of that .
yeah check it out .
csp underdog fantasy is the largest in the world the largest fantasy app .
you can do all the sport nba .
theyve got a lot of stuff going on with nba now .
ooh jamar gibbs is already in the red zone .
all check this out .
here my next one .
again i put ten on that .
this one is different .
i got jordan love two hundred and forty nine.five yard .
i felt comfortable with that most notably because sean said and seans doing pretty good this year .
javante williams fifty nine and a half .
whats that ?
no it wa j2k he gon na check out the game .
hey thanks j2k .
javante williams say fifty nine and a half yard rushing .
i that one .
cj stroud two hundred and twenty nine and a half .
yard passing i that one .
kenneth walker the third ninety one and a half yard .
i think he gon na get a good bulk because there much there with seattle and he need to he gon na be the bell cow there .
jordan mason seventy eight and a half .
i that one for san francisco .
thats another sean pick .
james cook i got a discount there with james cook .
that slash there ?
it wa at one.fifty nine and a half .
my discount dropped them all the way down to forty one and a half .
i used my discount on james cook versus seattle .
nujoku fifty eight and a half yard receiving .
i that one .
and jaden reed at sixty six and a half .
i got that one for rushing and receiving yard total .
thats what i got going on over there guy .
those were my pick brought to you by underdog fantasy .
check them out please guy .
and guy for the guy and girl thats doing parlay with our sponsor underdog which is the best in the world make sure you guy pay attention to the matchup .
matchup matter because matchup depict the style of play that these team are gon na play .
we can not always look at the stats from week prior because matchup matter .
you never know guy jump out there to a blowout .
and then you are not gon na get to produce you need from a quarterback because they are gon na run the ball a lot more .
now if you got a good game it is a chance that the quarterback gon na throw the ball a lot more and it is gon na be a lot more action to the receiver .
you got ta pay attention to who that team is playing on a week to week basis .
all guy thats it man .
hey darius thanks for carrying the show .
and thank you for everybody in the chat .
keith coming in hot .
j2k he already gone but still wan na give him his rose .
dano thanks for coming in and checking u out man .
dano is one of the guy thats on our show .
everybody man lot of chat action .
this is good .
candy parin thanks for showing up .
chai chieg thanks for coming in .
knowledge once again thanks knowledge .
thanks for joining the show .
also make sure you and subscribe and hit that notification bell .
leave u a good review .
and we will be back at two.thirty for our pregame show at bridge corbboard or northwest indiana sport headquarters with the hall of fame menu and the coldest beer in chicago and we are gon na do a pregame half time post game show .
they are giving away a fifty five inch television .
lot of goody .
we are gon na have five trivia question where you are gon na get some pretty cool merch and come hang out and check out with u man .
i look forward to seeing you guy and next week most notably we will be up there at two oclock with quarterback jim miller and big cat williams man is coming into town .
both of them boy are coming into town and they are gon na hang out and check out the cardinal screen with this another away game .
thats gon na be a good time .
we are gon na be up there .
jim miller is gon na be talking to x and o the one and the two with everybody .
he gon na be pointing at the tv screen screaming at our guy to do this and do that .
it wa a good time .
and hanging out with the fan signing autograph both big cat and jim miller both bear alum will be up there checking it out and it is gon na be a good time for all man .
and youll be able to hang out with your boy .
the other guy i call myself the other guy darius when i am hanging out with him .
thats what .
what do you got ?
ill get a full refill of that .
you want some food ?
what are we doing ?
thanks i appreciate you man .
thanks for having me and i appreciate the chat .
the back and forth with the chat is always fun .
it is always good to hear how other people think when it come down to this wonderful game .
yeah i saw kyle pitt got a thirty six yard td catch .
and let me see what else .
two yard receiving td caught by jamar chase .
thats my guy .
thing are going good .
i did not see anything happen with jamar gibbs in the red zone .
hopefully he got some yard for me .
i hope you win unless you are against darius or i. i hope i am against you .
i hope you forgot to start somebody because i need a win in the last play .
you want to know why i underdog fantasy because i always root for the underdog because i am the underdog .
good luck this week man .
thanks you too buddy .
should i town out ?
and in for the second half .
what is going on everybody ?
sport expert here and we are here with the two friend toggin sport podcast .
i am the sport expert max and i am here with my partner and good friend ken dogg .
yes sir ken dogg sport in the house yall .
sorry we took a couple week off because of school and .
but yeah we are back for our nearly monthly episode .
but well have episode at least once or twice for thanksgiving .
one of thems for a normal episode one gon na be ohio state michigan .
ohio state michigan ohio state gon na put them out though .
well still do a preview stream .
i do not even know we almost lost in alaska .
we are still doing a preview stream .
but yeah hows it been far ?
hows your football is going lately ?
what do you mean by football ?
hows your football how you been watching hows your football team going ?
they are doing .
the cleveland brown won yesterday .
they were able to beat the baltimore raven somehow twenty ninetwenty four .
finally getting a victory monday .
yeah with famous james .
packer won again ?
no did not watch them .
yeah packer won close game with the jag .
but jordan love they are saying he .
wake wolf is not that bad though surprising .
hey titan did not wrong .
i hate the titan .
whats up kobe ?
hey there midcoby .
there a very new member .
there mid kobe .
am i wrong about that one ?
you are not wrong .
although kobe is voting for the human being on election day .
what do you mean ?
who that ?
who it is .
hey i already voted .
ill probably do it on election day or something that .
heck yeah .
hows everyone going ?
baseball ever since i last talked to you ?
both our baseball team done .
both are .
it is been a sad month but a lot of good thing happen lately .
yeah speaking of michigan football did the news tonight kenny ?
jack tuttle guy retired .
thats another midseason retirement .
we had grayson mccall from nc state last week and now jack tuttle from michigan .
thats two starting quarterback in the power four that have announced her retirement midseason .
why is jack tuttle retiring ?
they said he had health problem .
he had five concussion .
fair enough .
bro kobe you were talking crap but kobe you were talking crap on the brewer when your team wa doing horrible .
yeah thats why he mid .
i am not talking crap on the yankee now .
i know they are losing .
i am happy they wasnt but i am not gon na be i want the dodger to win the world series to get over with .
yeah and i do not the yankee either .
yeah thats where i stand now .
but yeah what else is happening ?
we are on the nfl now. . hows his past week in the football ?
what do you think rate this week in the football ?
i give it at least a nine out of ten .
i love this week in the football a . a lot of good game a lot of great finish .
packer jaguar great finish .
even thursday night football wa a solid game .
unfortunately it wa ruined by officiating but .
yeah i do not know if you saw that face mask on sam .
yeah that wa clear face mask .
they had big money on the ram .
come on .
they had many call go against them .
we also had we had all sixteen played this weekend .
hows your record looking this week for college for football ?
i am twelve and three .
let see what my record is .
i have the steelers winning this game .
they beat the panther colby .
i do not think thats impressive .
out of all the game we could have talked about colby you are talking about the bronco panther game .
the worst game .
bronco panther do not matter at all .
i know that wa terrible .
yeah you should because bonick is horrible and he five and three with them .
my record is eleven and four .
i had the viking loss the raven loss the jet loss and the bear loss .
i had the raven jet a my loss .
you picked the cardinal ?
i picked the dolphin .
yeah dolphin choked in the end .
you picked the ram one ?
sean mcveigh is a good coach .
i do not to bet against him .
and they got cooper cup and pukinacua back colby .
not colby kenny .
i am not colby he colby .
but yeah thats a big difference though .
now you are mid colby .
yeah i am going to be sure .
i do not know colby .
i would be fine with the raven winning the division at this point though .
what do you think about jordan love injury again ?
they said it is a groin injury .
they said there could be some concern .
i do not know how much time hell miss if he doesnt miss .
but colby why would i cheer for the ?
i can not cheer for the bronco .
bronco are in the wild card .
the raven are leading the division .
we need we are only we are not going to win the division .
we need wild card probably .
bronco country thats that .
you obviously had the brown raven game finish .
you had the patriot jet finish .
my goodness put the fry in the bag aaron rodgers .
yeah i do not care about anymore .
it is even though .
he two and six dude .
they have the same record a the patriot kenny .
thats sad .
even though i have aaron rodgers poster back there .
who is colby ?
rodgers or bo ?
yeah two and six is pathetic dude .
my goodness .
what about that cowboy 49ers game yesterday ?
cowboy played a pretty good first half but lost their focus in the second half .
they they george kittle added big game on titan national titan day .
all those titan scored yesterday .
i havent been fantasy in one league .
we are playing each other this week .
i know i beat you .
how did you get that point ?
can kenny went from kenny went from the title winner two time title winner to two and six. . i i got admit i had a bad draft .
i can not even remember .
i can look it now .
yeah overall eight out of ten .
i do not know whats wrong with my team .
because baker mayfield wa on the bench .
how did you get one hundred and eighty three point and seventy point and point seventy ?
yeah i scored a lot of point .
how did you get that money point ?
i had a bunch from cdlam i think .
forty point from cd .
yeah the big game .
yeah i do not blame him for being happy about the detroit lion seven and one. . yeah the cowboy suck .
jack prescott is bun .
hey packards lion this weekend .
are you excited for a game ?
max which game ?
that should be a good game .
when did they play ?
four hundred and twenty five sunday .
wheres the game at ?
i am picking the packer .
i already know who ken dawgs picking .
i am. . this is first .
this is jared gotts first game outside .
nick bose is a beast man .
i love how we had the courage to .
i love how we had the courage to wear a trump hat .
and some people they would they are too scared to share their opinion but he wasnt .
the next week of football who doe the brownie play this week ?
we play at home against the charger .
i think well win .
i do not think the charger have that great of an offense .
packards played lion .
theyll come out either tomorrow morning or tonight .
colby i havent decided .
my pick video usually come out wednesday but if i have time ill do it tomorrow .
yeah keep the charger .
hey whats your record is here ?
my record i can not remember what my record is .
i am eighty two and forty .
eighty two and forty .
and i believe that .
thats insane dude .
i do not know if i can believe that .
i want to present it .
let me see my record because mine not even close to that .
can you allow me on the screen ?
yeah wait a sec .
or one second .
i wanted to see my record first .
i now it is now it is now i now it is believable i guess .
whats your record ?
minus seventy six and forty six .
followed on screen .
eighty two and forty .
we are all whooping robert and pickhams in a mirshaw .
hows hows rob doing in pickham ?
i know i know we had a lot of disagreement .
whats that worst week this year ?
whats your worst week ?
i want eight and eight week three .
i am going to check robs pick up this video on my computer .
seven and nine week four .
and ever since week week four .
ive been smoking a ten and four .
thirteen and one .
twelve and three .
thats not bad .
that is not bad .
that would be cool to get sean here .
he called in magic. . orlando magic .
orlando magic. . let check robs pickums. . speaking of orlando magic .
hows nba doing lately ?
how do you even watching the nba ?
yeah the cavs are three and over .
they are losing the night .
not surprising though .
at the .
three and .
yeah the cavs are winning now though .
they are up eighty four to eighty .
i am going to put that game on .
yeah thats good .
i am going to put the cavs on now .
hopefully we can finish it off .
waker son at ten oclock tonight max .
they are good .
they are back .
they play the cavs wednesday. . that should be a good game .
all let check dirty rob tv pickums .
let see what his record is .
captain mary i saw them lady .
on his instagram .
hey why are you dressed up a halloween for halloween ?
yeah i have no idea .
what about you ?
or should i do the real slim shady ?
could you do the real slim shady ?
too bad he a common supporter .
i say republican are real country a real america and democrat are the fake america .
but yeah overall rob robs ten and five .
he had the cowboy winning .
i had the cowboy winning originally but i changed my picture before the others .
because george kittle and devo samuel played or when it did go down sadly it is been down for a minute now .
who that ?
whats up daniel barry ?
appreciate you being here the newest member .
she heard man. . ill be here. . me and max birthday is coming up .
yeah november 12th for me .
november 18th for me .
how old ?
twenty one .
twenty one .
twenty one is good enough .
screw the ankeys .
it is november is better than october. ?
november is better than october .
come on mitchell hit those. . but the nfl .
yeah we did not talk about that commander hill mary. . tyree stevens .
tyree stevens and man what are you doing ?
you should get suspended for a game by his team .
thought of mitchell point as dude .
whats it called ?
jair alexander got suspended by his own team .
for doing something stupid .
whats his face can do get suspended for one game .
tyrees can get suspended for one game .
while the raptor are beating the nugget .
thats a shock .
the nugget are not good .
i do not think they are that great either .
how do you feel about josh jacobson green bay ?
i think he done a good job this year .
i think he a good fit for the offense .
who would have been a real good fit for the packer ?
your boy that put i used to play for the tn playing tonight .
and then a good pick up .
yeah i can not believe the giant let him go man .
no thats not true .
i do not hate the nugget bro .
hey per source colby is mid .
i do not hate the st. louis cardinal .
id say moseyloff need to make better move .
what is the best ?
how do you how do you feel about this nba season far ?
it is solid far hopefully the cavs can finish it off .
josh hart is good though .
the lakers are back ?
yeah they might be .
it is still early but .
hey lebron anthony davis look an mvp type player far this year .
he might screw around with the mvp of the westbrook fact .
he washed .
i do not miss him a a laker .
yeah ive been you havent been with lebron .
lebron day ha not been a laker at all .
ive been a cavalier in a long time .
yeah it is been six year now since lebron wa with the cavs. . greg joseph doe guy another point nine nine .
dude couldnt kick the last two week but he making everything today .
it wa sixty nine .
now it is ninety nine .
sixty nine now is ninety nine .
dean wade is trash dude .
why is now his brother the wayne wade ?
but he suck .
they are not late ?
make america great again. . how do you make america great again ?
ive been i want political commercial go away .
they are annoying .
you agree with me ?
a little bit .
i do not mind politics though .
nba is doing pretty good lately .
how do you feel with the nhl seat and far ?
i havent watched a ton but it is it is .
what i expected .
it is october only .
the season far from over .
how are the detroit red wing doing ?
four form one .
the bruin are four and four a i think or something that .
or form one .
one two three four five team are .
are tied for third place .
in the division .
is that crazy ?
the season far from over .
yeah exactly .
it is back .
it is back .
ben carrow is about to have fifty possibly .
there you go .
what a three by jerry scarlin calf of two point league .
far everything good .
but yeah you saw who died yesterday .
who died yesterday .
he died two day ago .
i am better posting but yeah that wa sad for you guy ?
the brown won for jim .
but yeah far i am excited for this week of football coming up .
packer lion .
it is not gon na be a good game .
put the fry in the bag aaron .
put the fry in the bag .
i think i am picking the texan to win .
me too .
i do not think the jet player care that much anymore .
why did the bonnet one go from one bad team to one to another bad team ?
he need aaron rodgers in his life for rodgers .
i do not give a shit anymore .
about that anymore .
what do not you give a shit about ?
aaron rodgers and all that .
thats fair .
is that bad ?
i do not give a shit about that .
they are not packer anymore .
he been a smeller this year .
he a little bit better than he made .
who gon na get more interception this year ?
but yeah xavier mckinney might be winning defensive player year far .
he could .
he been terrific interception after interception .
he been arguably the best safety this year .
i can not believe i can not believe jyveson resigned him .
and he walked walked over the lambo .
dexel lawrence been good this year .
dexel lawrence is good .
he might be good traded soon .
i do not think .
i think he a building block for the giant .
kennys gon na want him on the packer .
nine sack for a defensive tackle already is crazy .
i want everyone in green bay .
i want everyone on the round .
except to sean watson .
do you want to show him watson on the packer ?
green bay packer .
you can have him .
why you are to sean watson .
you can have him for the rest of the year .
jordan love is your is your hope and savior .
it is our hope and savior .
you might be .
moig wallace is good .
the thing is you could have had him .
you could have to sean watson .
he is a former pro bowler upside .
moig wallace playing .
with nothing to lose .
hey he ha nothing to lose .
moig wallace .
moig wallace is playing though .
he a good player with the offense set up for him .
hows college football going lately ?
what do you think about this week in the football after i come back and go back and quickly ? .
wait i talked about college football and we can talk a little more when i come back .
all . . college football let go for the ranking .
we are going to one still .
dylan gabriel the best quarterback in college football not up for debate .
i think came word is the best quarterback in football .
it could be .
we are going to be able to better in my opinion .
then you have a two .
you have the georgia bulldog who are the heavy favorite in the national championship again .
sadly sadly no humble pie for uncle lou .
i wanted uncle lou to eat some humble pie badly .
fortunately hell be eating my pie .
itll be yeah i thought .
even though he kept saying georgia wa barely a bull team a couple of week ago but thats what it is .
ohio state penn state this week you got drew rower .
it is going to be a game time decision .
you got broke broke broke i think thats his name .
whoever get whoever loses that job should be game should be fired immediately .
not even jorling james franklin ryan day penn state will not have a fire james franklin though .
because penn state they do not think they do not think they can do it with another coach .
ohio state is the resource more resource than pennsylvania state university .
thats that .
thats the big match of it noon with a gu and joel on the call .
thats what we are working with here .
in for the rear .
there is garland .
it is money for dg the pg .
i talked about some college football .
how can state going .
and eight only team with no win .
want to know my college .
one on north michigan university record is whats a record .
both our team are owen .
there is garland again .
the calf are up eight with three minute to go .
we have the same record .
can not say that same record .
the calf the calf are not the calf .
the kent state hasnt won against an fbs opponent since two thousand and twenty two .
they smell kenny .
northern michigan university ha won against u two thousand and twenty two a . yeah .
our last one wa against .
who wa the last one wa against .
against who ?
there you go .
that wa the last one .
thats the last one .
kent state doesnt look they are going to win a game this year .
say what northern .
hey early hey early chance wa against roosevelt .
that we went over time again some .
kent state had a chance against ball state a couple week ago .
i wa at that game .
but they lost .
who northern played play this week ?
take a random college at the michigan .
thats a d2 school .
i went to michigan .
and michigan .
i thought you said outside of michigan .
what school non .
ill be honest .
end with .
ferris state .
ive heard a fair state .
i did not know they were michigan .
they are the two time champion .
yeah i did not know they were michigan josh i do not care about robs league this year .
why not ?
i am worried about more yeah and i am in a closed matchup now max .
yeah hows your money league going you have any money leak ?
i do not i do have one of my dad but i am in a money .
i am in a money league for that nba .
this is my first time doing nba in a while though how about darius garland man he got thirty two point .
there garland suck .
come on kenny .
what are you talking about ?
that is thats trolling a we call it .
i know a donald j. trump said he said we do a little trolling is not that ken dog sure hey what would all trump come up to up ?
whats that ?
what will do not come to the up ?
i do not know why do not kamala or trump come up here good question are you kidding me what they keep calling phantom foul on evan mowgli my goodness howard tiger .
they are done allison they are done .
yeah they are done .
theyve been done i think allisons back in twenty thousand back in august war burrat with that this is this is red kenny .
they are trying to fix the game for the for the the knicks hey can you still see me because i run off the light on my my stand .
yeah i can see you i drop the light because come on .
they are calling thousand the cab every five second .
this is freaking rigged what is going to happen to tim wall after kamala harris loses i do not know .
well continue to be the governor of minnesota .
i guess what happens to kamala harris job ?
she go she work at mcdonalds rock and roll mcdonalds rock and roll mcdonalds .
that one max yeah good song still my coach at philandia used to play that song when someone had some question wow yeah is that cool one ?
yeah it got rock and roll baby are you going to check a trading on friday on thursday maybe maybe ill dress up a my old scarred .
ill have my helmet ready the smack you did when mason rudolph when you have caught one of your next class max tomorrow do you have class on monday ?
tomorrow tuesday no do you have class on monday because i think you are at home now ?
yeah only one though .
what time ?
eight eight nine am do you go to that one ever ?
yeah i do not know is i go every one no it is in person but i go every week though howd he go there ?
sometimes not all the time though all my grade are good are you gon na make the dean list this year ?
i do not know about that why not ?
this is rigged who did cleveland who did cleveland added this off season ?
the cavalier whats who they added ?
jaylin tyson the draft pick and new coach kenny kenny atkins the new coach thats it .
yeah are you with that ?
yeah because he a good coach you do not add anyone else sam merer sam sam mererals sam mererals been there is there anyone from the from when when lebron james wa still on the team ?
no tristan thompson but yeah i do not count that .
why not ?
yeah outside the number between them .
i do not know it wa hows jordan yane doing he he been mid today .
he wa doing the first couple game but he starting to stink it up again what about max ?
he he hurt .
he a sprained ankle whats his last name ?
struse he suck .
come on .
kenny how about mr. bates ?
he not playing either .
he hurt giant are playing money base hurt .
yeah pas it in my league neighbor giant are having a hard time stopping the run game you miss calling sexon not what about lorry ?
i miss him flowery marketing .
yeah i am here to i am here to win championship .
i am here to i want my team to win a championship .
you are not winning a championship with flowery marketing calling sexton not lorry marketing i miss robin lopez not at all i forgot about him robin lopez generational talent kenny do not you agree ?
yes sir the hook shot .
what about larry nance jr. i miss him i remember we got trade him in the two thousand and eighteen trade deadline yeah remember that max .
yeah yeah but yeah overall football is back college football is back yeah n.g.l .
ml is still under playoff exactly .
i have not ill be honest you do not watch soccer not steelers are max what ?
on monday december 9th bangle cowboy it is gon na be a simpson fun day football game on disney plus and espm plus .
i do not watch what disney .
no not happening kenny they are called thats the football game .
what game is it again ?
he had one hundred yard and two touchdown i am .
he still suck come on ken dog .
nice dude why is dean way too ?
they why would why would do not have a mid to argerius carl and pas the ball to dean way ?
he can not he missing all his free throw kenny .
we are gon na lose now .
this guy suck as .
he been horrible tonight he made he made the second thankfully what a stinker kenny the stinker whats going on rob appreciating joining .
whats up rob ?
but yeah for this talk about shit and giggle .
yeah we got the football game on here .
yeah calf are up calf are up six with all second to go i am watching nfl .
i have some cheese ball on the yeah why not and the next cavs are up four were seven second to go yeah skip another giant game .
do not blame you giant are giant are terrible to watch this ha been a football game but it is been but the problem is many flag again .
it is the nfl there gon na be a lot of flag i think there three touchdown taken away because of flag today a naughty rolling and there been zero touchdown scored in the game who love flag tom grassys play guy watch .
whats it called ?
whats that ?
dear watch .
whats it called video that come out on monday sometimes if m m if nfl wa scripted week yeah probably it might be be scripted anyway hey i want to know the script seeing the packer making the world making the super ball ?
against the brown not happening bro .
why we both make the super bowl kenny .
whats wrong with that ?
it is gon na be patriss packer bro .
it is bro what the fry in the bank of fraudiers ?
ive been calling them fraudiers for a long time you want some u cheeseballs max ?
i do not think you do not want some cheeseballs are you sure ?
i am sure i am giving you some now how are they delicious there a little wrong commercial anything it is it is yeah phony the problem rob i said this in your discord server .
i am gon na save again the problem with the jet they have a lot of player that do not care a lot of player who are egotistical they care about the stats .
they care about the money .
thats what the jet care about especially with no with their head coach being gone now in the patriss what they care about ?
he wanted to go to the jet to hang out with erin rogers and paddish stats .
let be real you can tell by the body language .
the guy doesnt care about winning .
he want money in stats and he all in his taco bell commercial hey i am telling me there a talk bell open thats for sale in whats it called la vega ?
yeah i told you yep no culture at all none at all the near jet yeah robber solid green bay is good .
patriot are coming along it is the lion first one is a new team .
yeah and that wa without drake may either jacobi brisette played what ?
i noticed your offense of wine wa wa very solid a . robber solid green bay the jet added a son reddick back and it it did not help at all .
it is an everything .
yeah man couldnt get any pressure on the on the patriot it is they they had a good game plan and it worked but yeah how do you feel all robber solid green bay helping out the practice it is interesting i think itll help .
look at the look at look at the jet defense without robert solid now .
it is been terrible ever since he fired i said firing a coach that can ruin your culture .
those player love solid i do not care what would he i do not care what would he johnson think and whatnot but the player adored solid they that wa that that wasnt a secret .
they are gon na have to ride it out .
it is gon na be it is gon na be ugly the rest of the way i do not expect them to be the texan not at all .
theyll probably be two and seven gon na have to ride it out and rogers might you never know with rogers .
he might he might cop out mid season honestly and hell go on pat mack if you and talk about it nonstop who on who the backup for the jet ?
i am not sure i can not remember yeah they finish flowing the sand and thats we yeah i would not be stunned .
yeah i am happy about rover i did not mention this either .
did the first quarter in that game the jet had to take all three other timeouts in the first quarter ?
yeah i saw that i saw that i wa that wa a big dumb that that that old bridge guy suck and they have talked they hello what ?
that wa dumb yeah and when you are and when your two option for calling play are todd downing and nathaniel hack it and yeah it is pretty bad overall thats dumb yep they are poorly ran .
it is they went all in and it did not work out it is poor absolutely piss poor from the new york jet and i tried telling people last year that i wa in high on the jet this year .
i had to make in the postseason i turned around on them but hey max you forgot to predict our postseason whats that ?
what do you mean ?
at the beginning of the year we almost we forgot to do a prediction of the post and did we do that ?
yeah we did we did we had one the world series now we are all serious .
it is super ball .
i had the i had the texan being the 49ers all .
that that wa another sign .
dude hanging out with the freaking twelve year old type people .
i do not care but yeah thats what you watch football game on .
are you excited to watch the lakers game tomorrow ?
tonight i meant you can watch them good game tonight .
cow are for no though kenny maybe the new york nick on the road kenny atkinson goat i am the goat .
yeah kenny atkinson in your hey wa it kenny atkinson used to be a head coach of a team that yeah he wa four he wa the head coach of the brooklynettes wa it coach and for also ?
yeah line line winning the super organ the bill yeah wa it wa that your preseason prediction robber ?
you are the current updated prediction i still i am still i am still sticking with my preseason prediction the texan are six and two the 49ers .
maybe they can get it going yeah i do not know trade deadline next week .
i do not expect major move to happen .
maybe some move here and there but yeah i think preseason. . i think i think the lion will add a pas rusher but maybe the steelers were out of receiver .
i do not know what are you doing the past ?
i do not know what did the packer need wow a rusher maybe a dresser .
it is an area smith reunion no why not ?
you can give u you can give u a first round pick mild scared. . thats not happening you wish what would mile garrett got traded ?
i do not know id be pretty upset when max max debate go on a rage .
yep i would in this yeah thats what i heard yeah trade hendrickson would be something the bengal are not doing too hot they are own for at home now .
i picked the eagle to win yesterday but it is not the bengal here that defense is terrible .
they got they need to they need to rehire new staff on that whole defense .
it is overdone overdue and yeah no t higgins yesterday obviously hindered the offense .
they got to pay the receiver too .
it is a sticky situation and they do not have brian calvin cal calhans cal calhans doing a horrible job in tennessee but i think he more suited for a an offensive coordinator and i think he had a good relationship with joe burrow .
the backer of instead of nothing nothing to the derriest .
my funny wa that green bag what do you mean they did nothing ?
he did nothing wrong we are friendly to the derriest man funny wa in green bay .
yeah he a good player .
but why do you want me green day ?
the brown would get something for him .
i do not know money yeah it is what we are at now hissons lost again are they own for now ?
yep the detroit piston are curious .
i do not care who coach that team they could have the they could have an all nba lineup and still finish horrible thats the i am convinced the detroit piston are a curse franchise at this point there no reason that team should be a one for now .
no i do not get it tobias harris only had nine point tonight he paid a bunch of money detroit player get offended when they do not get paid and get some way yep him hardware .
he had twenty point tonight .
look at look at on hasan redick he came back .
he back now but then look at jamar chase before the season started brandon i youk .
yeah cooked franchise .
yeah jb bicker staff former cavs coach who doe the pissant who doe the pissing play next i do not know 76ers on wednesday daniel jones took another sack but yeah wednesday 76er the first versus the piston yeah what do you think of that max ?
i think the sixer will win at this point .
i do not know whats gon na happen here this game whats going to i am a little score the mlb game ?
i do not know this might come back it is gon na come back probably nope it is gon na do you touchdown for the steelers .
wow i thought the punter got decked they did not call it unless they said he ran in the what the guy ran in there let see wow alvin austin wow thats crazy that is did he did he step out there ?
yeah dammit smith is incredible in this game max .
you got some life in this game max .
yeah who that guy that wa putting his finger down what guy that the coach thats the the nine and the sixteen for the steelers for the steelers .
thats the special team coordinator .
thats special team he lead hey someone saying all i am saying the tiger won the season series versus dodger that is fact against the frauders .
yeah aaron frauders is not that ?
i want to see ohio state play against state who your roof for higher state no what do you roof of kent state ?
i am not rooting for kansa state it can not say people how state what would you do ?
if what can not state one nothing .
i would probably i would celebrate for ken .
id be happy for kensate yeah id be disappointing for the bug eye although it is never gon na happen who can not stay play next year ?
i i think they play four to state texas tech in oklahoma .
yeah those are the three team they play out out of conference oklahoma .
they always they always play these big name school for money hey i respect that .
no on the head coach hey i am about to do a rebuild on on college football .
yeah i got college football max nice ever told you this ?
no i thought you did not have the console someone someone got me one ?
yeah someone someone blew her one to me .
a donation for ken dog yes sir the new york football giant is not that ken dog ?
no with new jersey giant see max sure look at this college football twenty five can i see it ?
can i see the cover ?
why the hell is that dude on the cover on the ?
why is that clown on the cover ?
who that the dude on the him the court ?
yeah he not no the guy you were pointing at before he suck and it can not know that guy no that guy that guy that guy he suck that guy i callio moan is way better do not you agree what team is on the back of here ?
i can not see it is that notred on one second that is norter game is that is that your dorm kenny ?
yes it is nice do you want to see the the desk sure there we go not too bad hows it on it nice it i do gross is your roommate there yeah yeah yeah he over here .
i heard i heard your roommate in the background of your picture to you there .
yeah i told i asked him to pick it yeah pick the viking even though they lost i picked the rand i am picking texan this week .
yeah same i am not picking the jet not happening not with fraud yeah ha it been crazy day crazy weekend for college for for tight end this weekend .
yeah it ha been and i national tight end day yeah i could i love national tight end day .
yeah yeah ive had it before it is pretty good whats your first thing on the talk about menu my favorite thing wa the cheese at crunchwrap but it is not there anymore i did not the cheese at crunchwrap you did it why not ?
why not ?
it wa too soft the cheese .
it wa too soft if if you get the if you get to with you get to you got they gave you two with it and it wa more crunchy i do not know if you had it it wa a stale cheese it mine wa good .
it taste it is one you must have be at a bad location hey want to score the lakers game whats the score ?
seventy seventeen to eight who winning lakers ?
wow lakers cavs might be a battle of four and kenny what do you think of that ?
what are your thought on that ?
it is twenty three to eight now wow max your team going down down maybe this lakers team is damn good no more dark and what doe that picture you have a your whats it called ?
i need to know thats when scoobo gave up the grand slam max get rid of that photo .
no yes i do not it i do hey boy suck no he wa our best pitcher this year hey you are you are whats it called your side young guy gone though max your side young pitcher gone .
he been gone dude he not coming back .
he wa dog duty when the playoff dog duty you do not want to talk much ?
yeah shame beaver i thought you were talking about claus a saying he saw young kid were gone no he gone wow shes beaver not gone yet quit it .
you are not gon na resign him .
i do not know about that come on ten dog well talk about in a month but yeah well do a couple straight and sermon break yeah how longs your break ?
i thanksgiving or yeah i do not know .
i do not think it is that long .
yeah holy or or a couple day off maybe a whole week off but yeah nor did i get the whole week off .
yeah thats good you do not have a fall break yeah our fall break a couple day off i know but you do not have a fall break here .
yeah hey max yeah i am looking at kensate academic whats it called ?
yeah the calendar you guy only have you only have whats it called ?
wednesday through sunday off yeah we do not have a lot of time off i am sorry for your loss man .
thats what i wa trying to say i did not think we had much time off but we got a full week off is that bad no because you guy had a fall break but even with that i think we should end the stream soon .
yeah thats fair we were weve been on for an hour and ten now hey nascar championship is underway their final .
well do a podcast probably in the near future .
yeah for sure .
probably after a trade deadline in the election the election but yeah i had a good time on the stream with you kenny thats episode thirteen .
i believe the two friend talking sport podcast go beyond ken dog sport channel next do not look at that kennys now first but yeah ill see you guy later yep .
yeah i appreciate everyone tuning in had a good time and yeah emir shaw say see you around the bend peace what see you around the bend see you guy later
yo welcome to the bout sport podcast on the second win sport medium network .
it is your boy see a fantastic alongside .
who you hear with your boy reggie .
hey you already know .
and it is got one thing to say to the people .
man yeah who we thought they were bro .
and what we thought they were man a good defense .
good quarterback .
all around good team bro .
but we said we thought we wa better .
and throughout the whole game we showed we a better team .
and down to how it came down to .
but it is what it is .
you got to win the way you win .
what you think about the game bro ?
they always thought they were they defense .
surprised me even though we were supposed to score a little bit more point than what we scored .
penalty held u back .
couple drop pass held u back .
but they defense still stopped u a couple of time forced punt .
we say it all the time frankie louvre .
hey he had me and this is trying to talk about watch out .
watch out .
watch out .
a you are in a bucket .
i wa in that joint .
i wa in here going off bro .
yeah frankie louvre showed out wagner too .
i think i think it came to a point where they got that one .
that i say thats swift one .
that that that got u . and then that that third and fourth answer that we did not go for when jaden he wa down an inch before the first down and it gave a good feel for this .
to get that last one .
i small scale think he got that for real .
i wa i got that .
that wa always lord .
i think i think that hurt score .
i think he scored that touchdown .
they called that .
yeah it wa a few little joint that i wa come on man .
but thats what it is .
you get over there having it up playing with j. and honey ours again .
hey one hundred hour again defensively i want to give a big shout out to johnny newton bro .
he stepped in .
he stepped up that day .
he showed why he wa should have been the first round up .
but thanks .
i thought he stepped up .
the whole defense stepped up .
secondary most of the game what i am saying ?
mine is that st. juice penalty at the end which i wa i said i felt it wasnt a catchable pas but he did grab him a little .
he wa more the route that made him grab him .
it wa a vicious route .
yeah i would .
but overall good one .
and the train keep on rolling .
yeah it is a needed it but we did not .
we it is no way we should have been .
we could have lost .
we should have lost that game .
even romo and then wa we sitting here at the end of the game and chicago might walk away with this game and theyve been outplayed the whole game what i am saying ?
we outplayed them the whole game .
but but we outplayed them .
i think it wa he had thirty nine passing yard to j. and two hundred and it wa only nine to zero nine to nothing. . it is all .
all we playing with food now .
thats how we need .
we needed we needed to get a touchdown early in the game .
probably first second court .
i said it is going to be a race to twenty .
i knew we will hold them under twenty .
and i am we got to probably get about twenty .
this is a race to twenty .
whoever get twenty win the game .
and i wasnt even thinking about that .
i wa if we if we could have scored .
if we would have made that field goal that on the wild on the field goal that it wa a shame .
he shanked it .
if we would have made that i felt the game wa over .
if we could have got one more score of course before the hail mary i felt the game wa over and wa over .
but we couldnt get the score and we couldnt get a first down to it .
when we punted we giving them good field position .
yeah thats a key .
enough field position for one or two first down put you in close to the red zone .
i think i think it would have got a touchdown on that .
it is the keyest joint .
they are not on that play that would have .
that would have pushed u to what thirteen nothing and that could have changed the whole game plan for them .
but because then they wouldnt have been able to hit .
they would never .
god they were still able .
they were still able to run the ball and do everything that one touchdown .
thats out the door .
you aint handed it to swiss no more .
and it is going to be up to what it is on caleb .
it is on caleb .
and at that point caleb he he did not have confidence in his own offense .
the whole day .
it wa i can not do nothing .
all over his face .
he i can not do nothing .
he tried nothing .
one thing i will say caleb got a little more dog in him than i thought because they wa they wa they wa they wa cracking them .
they wa hitting them .
they wa hitting .
they wa hitting them all around and he kept he kept fighting .
he kept fighting .
i give caleb that credit a far a to me to me he wa fighting because the defense kept you in it .
now any moment and point in time that defense would have gave up seven hundred and fourteen .
they would have went behind the eight ball .
i think it would have been different .
but your defense out there fighting and fighting .
and it is i could get a touchdown .
those three here we back in the game .
he not never he not never completely depleted because of the defense making play or u not making play or whatever the case may have been .
now i say we started out the game .
early in the game beeprod wa cooking then the bear they adjusted or whatever and started to load the box up and shut beeprod down and it wa put the game more on jadens arm .
you think jaden wa the same a far a what we seen previously .
and i know even i think tony rowan wa saying the velocity of his pass .
it wa some pretty good pass wa dropped .
it wa it wa a lot of drop but that one the zach erz across the middle that came up a little short might have had something to do with that .
it wa it wa a couple .
it wa a couple of time where i am even the go for it at the end of they are pushed for it for at the end of the first half ?
it wa i think they do not want them .
they do not want to risk them too much .
it wa a few time where i wa i did think he wa faking i think he wa faking .
i think he wa faking the fact that he wa because he looked even when he took the couple hit it wa he did not have no reaction on his face .
but he got hit one time and he wa i saw early they ran them they ran them early which .
i can not be too mad at if they felt he he wa he wa he healthy what i am saying ?
they ran them early and i wa and i saw a soon a he jumped out the outside and he grabbed it wa an immediate reaction to grab at his rib .
that it wa too bad because he ended up twenty one for thirty eight for three hundred twenty six .
i think thats the most you ask me through for on the season .
but i think i think that .
his running threat in the red zone .
thats what open up the red zone more for u . and i do not think that that running threat wa there a much they did not want to use it a much today which is understandable .
i think that could have been the case .
or every time we get down there we get a penalty that put u back five yard having many yard and then it changed the play .
it changed the scenario .
it changed what we wanted to do now .
we can not do that .
we have to do something else .
i said again i wish currie terry had that breakaway .
another one .
look i say man first thing i thought about wa very rich .
i said my god i said come on you got to make me write something .
i said jay jayden when the dude came in his ankle .
jumped up out of that joint ?
i said come on terry man you got to come on .
you got to you got to figure out a way .
but it is every time it a lot today .
it a lot today when currie terry come back on them come back or come across the middle he catch it and he go down .
and i am listen baby it is time to be a playmaker .
it is time to it is time to listen .
it is time to one two one two move and try to try to take it .
he he he he he got hand .
but i want that that extra from him .
maybe if he give u that extra then we will not need that number two .
we need number two .
i would need number two .
but the little know man is being our number two now .
salute to noah but he had some key drop today that that that that that store drive to man .
he had two drop that we needed .
we needed them pass .
and at that time i wa .
man see this is why we need to get cooper man .
this is why we need to get cooper .
but yeah salute to noah for for saving grace with that .
hell game this though .
it is i say and ive been saying it when in week one .
it is showing our turnaround .
i say i say about the chief the chief know how to win almost any type of scenario in the in the football game .
they know how to win if they throw no touchdown get penalty .
my home full pick even though that would never probably happen .
but they know how to win .
they know how to come out with a w. and thats what we did today .
we had penalty .
i the frustration on jay .
and jay wa wa frustrated a lot because we call it early timeouts .
yeah thats another thing .
killed this in the second half .
yeah we call it early timeouts .
and jay and it on his face .
and i am play through it .
it is time to play through it .
it is time to play through it .
and when they score i am we got to play through it .
play through it .
grant this is the first time with that .
first time i seen jayton do that too a far a show visible frustration because that wasnt the first time it happened on that .
that wasnt the first time it happened .
and he wa mad the first time it happened .
but then when it happened again he all now i am going to say what blew me ?
i do not they are going to have to do something with this rule ?
the substitution rule .
yeah no how they had the substitution when when you substitute on offense .
but they call the false thought on u . and they call the false thought but the ref the ref wasnt even set .
the play can not go off the ref not set .
and then i seen time when the ref get out the way it is three second on the clock on the play clock .
it is it get to a point where it is at ten second what i am saying ?
if yall aint served yet then yall going it is going to be where it is going to be .
that might have to be the new rule .
because that that rule is given the defense too much power to control the time on the offense .
that job the job been blowing me a past couple of week for real .
they go they i think they are going to see it .
they going to try to tweak it around .
come next year .
competition committee and get in get involved on that .
and there .
but a man that in the office .
it is what it is ?
it is what it is .
one one through for three but three twenty six the other one through for one thirty one ten for twenty four for one thirty one .
and that one .
what a hundred ninety seven ninety nine .
ninety nine yard of that came in the fourth life .
when they wa fighting to get get back in and take on and take the lead. . yeah it is visible .
he looked all four game .
he looked he looked erratic .
he did not have to look all season .
this chicago bear game wa a chicago bear game .
how theyve been playing all season defense .
and they defense gave caleb an extra win in that last quarter the last couple of drive to where all caleb need is one or two drive a game .
but you run up to a team you run up to the day .
then you are going to need more than one or two .
yeah i think that .
think the football guy wa looking down on u day bro .
we can not .
we can not .
we can not have this .
this can not happen bro .
it can not .
it can not .
it can not .
we want them to do a park ha one week .
hey i am a show .
i am a show bro .
i am when lose we got show but it would have been it would have been it would have been sad .
man it would have been this one would have been this one would have hurt man .
he now you you hold chicago to two for two for twelve on third down .
they couldnt do nothing .
they couldnt do absolutely nothing .
they get caleb thrown it to the fan .
through three quarter .
we probably should have .
it should have been twenty eight .
it should have been twenty eight .
the first drive be rob got u down there .
stardust three .
scurry terry got the bomb .
stardust three .
every time .
but we need to work on though .
soon a he hit that sweep i said man we struggle bad with sweep .
yeah we always struggle with sweep jet sweep any sweep bro .
we struggle with them joint .
what we need though ?
i am going to tell you i said i said last year we shouldnt never get rid of sweat .
mark he fast .
hey slam the how much of a difference maker that man is bro ?
he fast .
and i knew he wa fast with u . but it is he picked up some side .
he aint .
but he aint lose the speed .
and i think it is a prize j. because j. and honestly thought he could outrun him on the edge .
two time that he caught .
he caught .
he probably wa you you fast .
why we get rid of you ?
thats what i said .
i said at that time man i am bro i would trade .
i am fine with getting rid of chase at this point whatever i wanted to keep one of them to though .
and i wa i want to keep sweat but salute to sweat .
man he still balling .
would you trade sweat for one of those detacles we got ?
which one ?
because sweat is only going to be worth two of those .
and it is even the wrong pain of jonathan .
would you trade one of those two to make it ?
because i think i think i think johnny could hold down the other one. . what i am saying ?
johnny johnny showed the data he could what i am saying ?
he could he could do this .
yeah i would .
and even without johnny with ridgeway it wa .
i still want to talk about .
we have to have that edge .
we got to have that edge russia that that that that .
that bona fide past russia .
thats why i am willing to trade up to a second round the full one now at this point .
because that that that take much pressure off your secondary .
if you got a weak secondary what i am saying ?
it take a little bit of pressure off of them knowing that .
we are going to be able to get there .
we are secondary because the past couple game i honestly do not think they garbage me personally .
i think we average in the back .
i do not think we do not have no game change .
we do not got no pure shutdown .
but i think they are all good at what they do .
it is been arguing playing .
i think it is what i do .
yeah and thats what it is .
and thats thats what i wa about to say .
a much a i got a love hate relationship .
for benji st. juice i feel if we can get a playmaker in his back .
and keep everything else in place .
i feel that change our secondary .
yeah but see i think st. juice with st. juice i say that is saying he not a bull .
he might get got a couple of time .
but for the most part he going to give you decent coverage .
he going to be in this .
to me he is when he get beat and when he feel out of place he get handsy and we get penalty .
and thats what i am even these day more wa cry because he wa shutting shutting them down for for the game .
but it wa one player saying if he got handsy with him but caleb got rid of the ball and completed it too fast .
and if he would have waited i felt they would have got the call .
but because he threw the ball quickly it wa simultaneously where i do not let that go .
but he played good .
he played good .
i think i think he a he a he a all corner .
i am going to say he great .
he not a pro bowler nothing crazy but i think he all .
i think we got all up front and make him look better .
you get a little pas rush thatll help him .
but me i want to go for both .
i want one each what i am saying ?
but you can not i do not want to trade everything .
now i i wa pegging this game a the a the breakout for my man forbes he can not get out there .
and i wa and thats another thing what i realized what we do is some day some player going to play there and some day .
yeah thats what they say .
they say if they they they set people up for his compared to the matchup they maybe they thought that these receiver they wasnt and i see what it is they saw which is smart .
they did not play much zone .
they they they they rushed a lot to get the kayla .
may caleb russia made him have to get the ball up by his hand which wa smart .
whats the sex we get today ?
sex i think we got two .
i think we only got two .
yeah two .
but there wa a lot of pressure a lot of pressure .
but thats caleb wa a magician back there bro .
i wa they got it .
no how you get out of that ?
caleb got out of a lot back there man .
he got out of one of them .
he couldnt get away when he went one on one with frankie .
you remember that ?
court of an awesome .
get away from that one .
to my man down yeah but caleb he he more lucid in that pocket than i thought he wa man .
i wa i knew he could move around it but i know i know his awareness his pocket awareness wa that that i call him more fear .
then awareness because he wa running for his life .
he wa running for his life .
but we couldnt get him .
but you say a hundred of them you all came in the fourth quarter .
no you werent completing nothing .
he couldnt do nothing .
i think he wa looking at the pressure come most of the first half .
wheres coming from this time ?
let me see how i am how i am going to get out of here .
because he knew it wa coming .
and to hold them out .
i do not know how many first down they got early but they went on them two drive late in the fourth quarter .
and we held them the 15th first .
man you got that one .
you go to me you said man deandre swift he he got .
look thats all you got to look for .
i am here in the .
little music that you play .
but it is cool .
yeah. . what wa you saying about swift ?
no no no i said we had to had to watch out for .
and but thats he had a good game .
i had to have to switch .
the yeah yeah swift wa swift wa cooking swift wa cooking .
yeah that it wa it wa mainly that run though .
it wa a lot to do with that run. . and our defense i do not know what it i think .
we wa more focused on stopping that pas maybe with caleb .
and getting pressure on him that we wasnt a focused on the run game. . yeah i do not know .
think swift wa nobody had to do .
he got got through .
he got through .
got through with u and had that long run .
but yeah i want to go around the league though .
do want to go around the league real quick .
and talk about .
talk about some of these other game that went on .
first i want to talk about them them dolphin .
two came back today .
they played against the cardinal ?
played against the cardinal .
calamari went off twenty six for thirty six for three hundred and seven with two touchdown and two ahead wa twenty eight for thirty eight to thirty four with one .
but want to talk about tour with this one because the dolphin they jumped out to a lead .
and then the cardinal came back .
but do you think tour is that much of a difference maker for them ?
because they look they look a lot better today .
he is a hell of a difference maker for .
they lost in the losing effort he played .
they looked completely better .
yeah completely better .
yes eight chain had one hundred on the ground sixty through the air .
how we had about six for seventy through the air .
a lot of player who wasnt getting involved without them started to get involved .
yeah he opened that offense up man i wa saying last week man .
i do not think he all that .
i think he probably i said probably .
fringe top ten in a league or whatever .
but in that system .
it work with him nothing nobody business .
but he might have made me rethink that the way .
the difference the difference that he make with them .
and i might have to revisit that because man they looked dead in the water most of the year since he been out .
and now they look they .
they aint that bad .
yes they look .
and they lose the effort .
they lose the effort .
i aint looked that bad .
but the baltimore .
how about the next thing i wa going to say baltimore in the brown man .
baltimore lost to the brown twenty four to nine .
lamar jackson had two eighty nine with two touchdown .
jamis winston started for cleveland and got their offense going more than this been all year .
it went twenty seven for forty one for three thirty four .
they also got new play calling new play calling .
yeah no jamis winston for the browns. . he i could tell by his pregame speech that they wa coming out to do something .
he went eating no dub used by you when eating dub .
yeah nah he he had him looking better man .
he had him looking real good .
think the team rally behind him because he somebody who going to push you down the field .
i do not know whats been going on with the sean .
i do not know if the team gave up on him for real or whatever .
but they look they wa out there fighting for jamis .
in baltimore. . they had it .
should have been that game .
should have .
kyle hamilton had an interception .
jamis over through the dude and kyle hamilton had to pick there in his bread basket and dropped it next play touchdown .
and did not get bored of more time to get downfield man .
but yeah cleveland look a lot better .
i am think i wa rooting .
i wa rooting against cleveland because .
i want them to hurry up and go in and get that fire sale we could get denzel ward or .
i am i am wanting to go ahead and go ahead and hurry up and get them folk up out of here man because we all they need to come to this real good situation man .
in the division only division game from early is eagle eagle and bengal man .
how you would think about the eagle ?
i i believe i always feel it is hard to stop a team that ha a running quarterback .
and when you add that a they call him barkley on top of that twenty two for one eight wa safe .
and then of course no jalen score three three i am one .
i think he wanted to he wanted to say why i got him down there .
he wanted to get let say why i get it .
but they they the brotherly shove king man .
thats what they went with .
and borough wa twenty six for thirty seven .
two hundred and thirty four one touchdown one pick .
and yeah jamar chase he had nine nine catch but only fifty four yard .
what what let me ask you what do you think about the eagle ?
cause i said in the last week how sneaky i think the eagle are .
cause they they sitting here they sitting here on our heel .
it is and do before we did what we did today with the hell murray ?
i am man we about to give up number one .
we about to yeah .
i think we still would have had it by half a game .
i think .
because now we both got two .
that would have been our third one .
we would have i do not want to be behind them because they would have had it because how they they game they they game style .
they they run the ball they quank and get them down there .
and when they down in that red zone they probably the hardest team in the nfl to start .
i wa i wa thinking for a much crap a they put serrani they .
wanting to fire him every week .
he keep keeping them in contention .
yall doing this man ?
but shouldnt have let them get safe one .
i know that much because .
safe one having a whole resurgence to his career .
he showing out up there man .
yeah he showing out .
he showing out man .
and then now they got aj brown back .
devonte smith devonte smith finally he had a bad he had it down a couple of week but he showed out today .
thats gon na be we are gon na thats gon na be a battle bro .
thats gon na be a battle man .
take care of business there .
and we go to pittsburgh .
and i am gon na tell you this stat line and i want you to tell me what you think the final score wa in a win or in a loss .
twelve for fifteen eighty five passing yard .
do you think that quarterback won or do you think that quarterback lost ?
twelve for fifteen .
eighty five with a head to be lost though but .
i know you asked for reason .
that quarterback that quarterback won fifty two to fourteen .
there you go .
thats crazy .
thats crazy .
he had three touchdown but yeah had three touchdown .
fifteen eighty five yard .
there that wa all for what ?
i think they ran back a special team kick or punt kick .
theys listening .
khalifa raymond with a ninety yard punt punt return .
all short pass .
the porter for three yard pas touchdown same round for one yard joint .
rock for eight .
yall said last day they ballin .
no they did not .
they are bad at the nfc .
look because they got a nice they got good defense .
to go on top of being able to only throw for eighty five yard .
thats ridiculous .
nah they they they clicking on all cylinder bro .
they clicking on all cylinder man .
defense got two pick on mason rudolph today .
rudolph went twenty two for thirty eight for two hundred and sixty six .
but man tennessee one of them team .
they one of them team looking for one of these footer back .
number one number one drive pick .
fighting for one of these .
this number one pick .
try to get a quarterback even i say i said before not sold on none of these quarterback this year coming out .
if i wa a team i start taking for for arch or something try to get that man in blood line .
we going to be garbage next year too .
we going to be garbage next year too .
cause yeah thats but yeah man .
who else wa earlier you had ?
yeah the jet .
jet who can not get .
i know devonte adam is hurt bro .
he he done left one situation to go to another situation and it is he can not get to a good situation to save his life .
thats exactly what it is the situation .
yeah it is bad .
it alludes to the patriot .
when drake may went out with a head injury brissette came in went fifteen for twenty four one hundred and thirty two .
and rogers there go seventeen for twenty eight for two hundred and thirty three .
but the patriot came in though won in the game .
and he came in and won in the game man .
he keep getting these situation .
and doing good .
he he looked he should be the starter .
he prized he better than drake .
he did start the year a the starter and they wasnt that .
it aint i aint can not be too mad .
but yeah he better than drake may at this point now .
they it is one of those situation where joe flacco coming for the coach and look he better than anthony richardson at time .
he is better than he is better than anthony richardson .
hey i do not know .
maybe they want to develop .
they want to develop drake and i get it because they not looking to be world leader now .
and but drake may have sold raw to me .
thats why i did not him coming out the draft because i did not his teeth .
he got that .
the arm is ridiculous .
but i did not his tape .
i did not his decision making .
i did not his progression .
i did not there a lot of thing i did not about drake which is why i wa i aint drake probably be my fifth quarterback that i would .
he wa probably fifth for me .
and it wa probably only fifth because wouldnt i probably would have had him over both next deal .
he probably fifth .
do you think if the best and go back would they drag would they still draft caleb number one ?
high side two thousand and twenty no .
i do not think .
i think they i think they know now at this point jaytons better .
not saying in a future caleb can not get what i am saying ?
it is but i think for the situation that the bear wa in with their coach you can look at their coach their gm they are they they damn they lame duck .
they they went all in to win now .
they put all the pressure on caleb to win now .
and caleb is not prepared for that now .
four or five year from now caleb might be the next pack my home .
but to put that on him now no he not prepared for that .
thats more of a situation where jayton wa more prepared for .
jayton wa more to work on with caleb than what you got to work on with jayton .
jayton wa more to be put in a situation where you we we ready to push .
you can look at our situation .
we wasnt ready to push .
he put u there .
what you mean ?
look this is what we are going to do .
we might be we might be a little bad this year .
we might win about six seven game .
when we are six seven we gain .
six seven what ?
six seven by we gain .
let me ask you this because it is another player who i did not see on the field today .
going back to the eagle game is jehan doxon .
i saw him on the sideline when they they had a play he came out wa yeah good play .
hey whats up ?
got you playing up there bro .
do you think it could have worked out here with him ?
nah i do not i do not because the play style is not jehans play style .
they want dog they want .
you are going to have to block .
you are going to have to crash into the pile .
you are going to have to what i am saying ?
you are going to have to be physical .
you are going to have to run you got to tasmanian double some stuff .
and jehan more of a finesse pretty game .
i would run this little slick route .
he more of that type .
they do not want that .
that aint going to work .
nah they do not want that .
nah they do not want that .
they want aj brown and debo sandal .
i want aj brown or debo sandal .
maybe maybe we slip up with somebody .
yeah they got to make some money for brock do not they ?
they got to .
they almost got to .
they got to free up some money from brock from somewhere .
they got to pay brock because if they do not pay brock i am a quarterback .
i do not want to go to the san francisco .
what i got to do to get paid .
salute to the people on nbc the ujjaka .
halftime they got hail mary to the command .
hail mary to the command .
i am surprised i still got a voice after saying that .
hey sometimes i wa curking out bad .
i am yeah my name is mad at me now .
they wa curting .
i did not say much stuff joe .
i think i called everybody in my contact book .
everybody wa probably they probably hit him in the nose .
they wa screaming .
the one person who answered wa the eagle fan .
i am sorry but you got to hit this .
you got to hit this one too j. you got to hit this .
hey your man bounced back after last week bad game .
they struggled .
they struggled .
twenty five for twenty seven for two hundred and eighty five .
last week he had what eighty yard ?
last week wa terrible .
but this week i am going to stop using struggle sometimes because they in the nfl and these to field nfl team .
and i the coast win because i say yeah these the game you are going to have to win .
but yeah my colleague coastals four and three coastals four and three coming in .
i would imagine most people would have had the texan winning that game but the coast stayed four and three at least they aint but i can never i could never believe in anthony richie .
and it is sad because he went to florida .
but i can not believe in anthony richardson bro .
he ten for thirty two one hundred and seventy five one touchdown one pick .
but he he not accurate to me man .
now thats why he could throw a hundred yard .
arm is stupid man .
but see thats why i am i do not trust that a much .
i the tape .
thats why i wasnt high on drake may .
because drake got an arm that .
got a arm crazy sip the ball throw every throw and do that .
i the process .
anthony richardson got no accuracy .
he won those player to look good or look good but when they do not look good they look bad .
if that long ball is completing he wa the alec pierce in week one every time he decided to throw it sixty yard down the field it looked good .
but when you throwing bomb after bomb after bomb and it is not being completed it is .
i think i think they wasting the career jonathan taylor too bro .
hank you think he career being wasted ?
bro he a top running back .
and who won the top running back in the league bro ?
it is .
but thats why they got thats why they break them .
how it is .
thats what i wa saying about tennessee with derek henry bro .
tennessee wasted all them year of that dude career bro .
and it is the same situation with jonathan taylor in indianapolis .
jonathan taylor need to go ahead .
see we got braw about you .
who you ?
who you about to say ?
what everybodys super star bro .
matter of fact i love braw .
but but i know .
if i could get somebody over here where i could almost guarantee a hundred plus on the ground again .
jonathan taylor different .
i hope well be able to keep braw a that red zone with great blunt type of road .
thatd be fun .
and have jonathan .
yeah that would be fun .
and keep echola and move him to the nickel .
the nickel wa i wa our third down back .
our third down back .
yeah third down back .
thats it .
third down back .
pas catch him back .
yeah you get hey hey you get we get jonathan taylor with our line and i restops quarterback .
ill be get somebody that .
a i said he started out good .
i said we gon na cook because the best run they got one weakness is that it is their run defense .
i said braw about to cook .
i can see it but they i said they they they they stepped up and they they clamped down on them to hold it down .
but he only had he had sixteen for sixty five .
it is full yard four.one carry or whatever .
but i do not know .
see i tell you i am old school bro .
i remember if you are if you are running back did not get twenty five run .
whats wrong with you ?
running back not the same .
running back not the same .
league aint the same .
we had at the point for this .
in the game we were almost in .
in the game where we had the lead for most of the game jayton almost threw forty time thirty eight time .
the running the running back i think we run two running back .
there wa twenty four twenty four run to running back .
that used to be one running back .
and your backup might get ten .
and thats why i throw twenty five time a game .
and thats why it go back to me .
when i say thats why it is hard to stop .
i can send those running quarterback .
because jayton added another eight run .
it add another what i am trying to say .
for example you said what thirty that old school you released thirty to thirty five touch for a running back. . if i go look at philly say q1 twenty two per ten thats thirty two .
you give game another five .
thats thats and then shipley got two .
thats almost forty curry .
philly philly still keep that old school grinded out style .
they always had they always wa that wa that wa all .
it is always meant philly .
i can not think of a philly quarterback .
something that will be will be a dominant .
will be unstoppable .
and thats when we look our best when echler clicking when b rob clicking when jay able to run in the passing game float off of that .
i did not realize everybody in scary turd popping open running chris rope .
i aint know he had that many rush yard .
i aint realize he wa he wa cracking that many open .
thought they wa following him up but i thought he wa getting locked up for real .
for real .
thats all the game around the league that the falcon falcon beat the buck .
falcon beat the buck .
it wa close .
back at the two pick .
but yeah the buck the injury show .
thats going yeah thats going thats going to hurt .
thats going to hurt too much for them to overcome bro. . let me look and see who wa there .
if you say thats what we said .
i am going to have to be kay bucky .
we have to be aughton .
and richie y. bucky had seven catch for forty .
kay had nine for eighty one .
ive been in that .
it wa there .
for thirty eight .
it wa all two four touchdown .
they do all that .
they only lost by five point .
they bottled up b. john .
thirteen run for sixty four sixty three .
i aint going to say bottled up but they did not run a lot .
the average almost five a pop .
but yeah cal piss came got off .
yeah cal piss .
but he received that tight end .
i feel he should be .
he should average at least sixty yard again .
especially on a on a receiving court .
it is not that strong .
yeah i i am not crazy about them .
they are receiving court .
he he he decent but i said he a good receiver .
to me cal piss is better than drake london .
cal piss is cal piss should be the best tight end in the lead .
skill wise and ability wise .
thats what everybody thought coming out .
but i do not know what it is man .
it is got to be a want to or .
work tactic something .
it is something what cal piss on why he he aint getting it done man .
last thing i want to talk about .
i am going to switch all around .
i am going to switch sport bro .
whats going on with him man ?
see bro i did not step on that floor .
it is easier for me to talk when they not making crazy decision that .
you make it a little bit easier for me to talk to talk about them .
but i have to see .
i have to see because they always come out strong this .
and then once the league starting to heat up i think the warrior might be undefeated too .
but well see .
i what anthony davis doing .
anthony davis is he could be the decent player of the year .
if he play ad plan .
yeah ad plan with a fire on them now .
i want to see if he can stay healthy .
because thats been his whole thing bro .
he come out and he missed half the season because he do not .
thats what i say .
i want to make a move and get another and get another player .
what you need ?
what position ?
if we can get with lebron favorite shooter i still do not feel we have a consistent shooter .
i u to get when we had contiguous car will poke a three and d. yeah .
i am going to play defense and make some three .
because when you play with lebron it is not even about what we want .
it is not even about what we need .
it is about what lebron feel .
what lebron feel is best for the lakers .
let me see who yall can say that again .
what lebron feel lebron feel is best .
i would imagine that they would want dalton connect to be that .
that three point that shooter and then college thats what he shoot .
boy could play .
he nice .
but i am not coming from college to the pro and this is almost any sport especially basketball and football .
you got to come show me .
you got to come show me .
what you did in college look at marquel folk marquel folk wa probably one of the best college player ive seen .
now to cause winning .
i do not think that ive seen but in the past couple maybe five six seven year what he did up in washington wa got him got him got him drafted .
number one .
but it couldnt translate translate .
but thats the thing .
thats the thing .
i say i i could agree with you on that because connect aint it is you look at skill set what i am saying ?
connect aint got no speed .
he aint a physical power .
it is is this going to translate to the next level ?
somebody zion or kyrie ai they got they got a skill set that youd .
my goodness aint going to be to keep up with him .
and thats what you need .
you even need to be you said kyrie irvin or i feel you need to have one specific thing that he do breathe to make it mean .
and you say how you say ronnie need to find that that one thing to stick with .
he do not have that yet .
but i feel if connect going to come in he need to be able to shoot at a higher rate .
he got to he got to he got to he got to make a roll .
he got to make a roll for itself .
look at because you are not having .
god i forget the bad man name every time i think about him play with the hawk wa a three point shooter .
there a lot of them over there with the hawk .
i am saying he played he played with him before though .
he i think he retired now but he wa all he did wa shoot her .
nah that wa him shoot three .
cow cove cow cove .
cow cove .
i could i forget his name every time i think about him .
that man he made a roll for itself .
it is he the dude .
he going to shoot three .
thats becoming a game to do .
thats what the league is .
yeah cow cove up in there .
you need three put them up in and he going to get double when you need the three .
no. . yeah three .
yeah undefeated .
yeah the warrior undefeated this in the west .
yeah the warrior and the thunder .
i the thunder .
are you worried ?
thats all about the a. are you worried because i think the warrior i think they time is .
i think it is the thunder time now .
between thunder and probably still nugget ?
are you worried about the thunder now ?
no the thunder .
the thunder is a great team .
i think they young .
i think that they they need to experience more loss .
to to be able to get over the hump that they do not realize that they are going to hit come play off time because they are going to be a playoff team .
they might finish number one in the west but i do not see them .
i do not see them winning the ship because lack of experience .
of experience .
but i do think i do think the timberwolves .
it is going to be a sneaky team .
because they got rid of big cat .
thats thats thats thats thats upgrade with that .
you saw that you can start with that .
getting ready him wa wa .
but yeah i havent had any .
because because now how far they made it last year .
they know what it take now to get over that hump .
how the celtic the celtic what lost in the easter conference what i am saying ?
a couple year paying back one and a ship they know what it take to get over that hump come play all the time .
they know it is a turtle race and it is not necessarily a sprint .
and a much a i hate to say it but i love to say it because it is my team you can not sleep on lebron eighty .
bron somehow some way he always got the magical moment in him bro .
much a i hate to say it i am an advocate lebron hater what i am saying ?
i respect this game but i always i am gon na root against that dude in everything .
and it is crazy .
i do not know how that how that can .
it is crazy .
it is crazy .
nah i miss the best role player ever to play the game .
i feel you though because if he came to the wizard i would have been the same way .
i can not i can not help u win but i want you to be garbage .
but last thing on the mv i want to ask wiz you think the spur gon na take another step up with wimby and them this year ?
first yeah .
i think the experience that wimby got i say sometimes you got ta take loss to gain the experience and win .
i think the loss that wimby took to the usa team in the olympics is gon na motivate him even more to play harder to understand how he ha to work to understand a lot more about the game .
he gon na come with vengeance in his career not this year .
in his career i wa looking at an interview that wimby did and he wa how he lost respect for nba player because he thought they worked way harder than what they worked .
he wa i thought these guy wa busting eight young men .
i know they work hard .
these dude on the club had to do it .
he said he came to the league and they wa nah some of them work hard but a lot of them do not work a hard .
i the mentality .
i remember going to club down here back in the day man .
now the wiz player on ill be out there sizing them up man i could probably go out .
ill be looking up i could probably go out .
this man .
but nah i think they could take a step up and depending on wimby they could be a threat because chris pol i think he gon na be a big difference maker there for me .
not point not scoring wise leadership wise and facilitating the offense .
i think thats what they needed is somebody who could facilitate .
he gon na get the ball where it need to be .
he gon na set wimby up with the pas that he need .
chang gon na be able to get open shot heard some bar better look what i am saying ?
i think that open it .
it is gon na open it up for them man .
i this first .
i this first .
i think they still gon na need one more piece .
yeah i think they need one more piece pry .
yeah i think they need one more piece .
i think pry .
i do not wimby playing the center .
i do not for the role that you need him to do with the cause wimby is the number one option .
but when you are the number one option and you wimby you you you you tall but you do not have a joe and b type of playing to be getting down there banging with all of those center .
i would for them to i would for them to get a center .
even if it is a brook lopez even if it is a center that where you could slide wimby somewhere else where he not taking a punishment .
you have to check the the and b the joker .
yeah thats gon na be thats gon na be a lot .
and tap on the office and ask him to come around and go dunk on these player or sprint the floor hard or whatever the case may be .
yeah but you think hell be exposed with his long linky self against some of them power forward though ?
no no cause he he he a athletic a them .
thats shit .
they might be exposed .
they better hope he do not come .
yeah plus cause these fall are small .
these fall you got ta think and what you wa saying plus you get cause wimby liked to play around that three point line and stuff that .
he probably been perfect there .
it is it is yonus yonus can go play the center but why would i have him go take that punishment ?
thats brooke there where brooke can stretch the floor and grab rebound take a little bit off of yonus .
then when i need yonus to grab a rebound and sprint the floor hard he able to do that .
they should try to get somebody a i say our boy mcgee or what you call it .
kevin looney or somebody .
yeah i i used to call robert williams .
but yeah hey looney one of them .
yeah somebody that .
yeah i can see that .
i can see that .
and then move everybody down chan could play the two .
they can all go back to natural position cause when we had the bos it is asking a lot for him .
yeah it is asking a lot .
but yeah thats it bro .
thats it for the day .
salute everybody who watching what i am saying ?
and yeah check u out .
shout out to the commander .
shout out to the commander .
hail to the commander .
came out with that dub .
is jayden is jayden lee and ricky the year now ?
what do you mean now ?
i am saying cause the best fan want to act listen if it is still the best fan out there who think that caleb williams .
i do not even think that they believe that coming into the game .
but if they still believe that after today performance then i commend yall cause i probably said the same thing .
he wa on the command .
i do not know what true but i probably still said the same .
shout out his toughness .
shout out his toughness .
shout out shout out shout out to the commander .
shout out noah brown .
shout out skurry terry mcclellan .
we got to figure out a way to get you something .
eye and back to foot of something .
you got to dee on high step all the way down the field .
i said no i said come on terry about that richie .
i said i said see what i am talking about here .
and then what they do and then we kick the field goal .
i say look if you get in the end zone there cause thats the second or third time i did not see you get clipped up by your ankle this year baby .
they did not make it .
i got to get on you because i love you baby .
it aint making no better than the jaden .
he jumped up out the one later in the game .
come on thats the quarterback you to receive .
but you supposed to be the one to get about it .
it is all good .
it is all good man .
but yo on to the giant .
on to the giant .
it is to be hopefully we playing better .
hopefully we beat them by thirty .
how we supposed to beat them the first time ?
how we supposed to beat them ?
yeah we gon na get them cause our offense clicking now granted they got a kicker now .
there aint gon na be no excuse .
that they do not have no quarterback at all .
they got a kicker with no quarterback .
our defense should cook again .
i am i am i am on top of that .
on top of that .
i want to see i am a whole dog from now on .
i want to see if they gon na start through lock with dan jones .
either way either way do not matter .
and my prediction to this to today game would have been a little bit closer if we did not kick many field goal .
yeah now you wa there a far a u moving the ball or whatever yeah i think i had what twenty seventwenty .
no twenty seven yeah twenty .
i wa thirty year ago .
i had twenty sevenseventeen if jayden played twenty twenty to seventeen if marcus played .
we do our offense and our penalty made their defense look better than what it wa .
i do not want to take everything away though because their defense they play .
i am corner their secondary they played .
and then i say sweat up front wa a difference maker .
sweat played man .
sweat played ball today .
salute to that dude man .
i never wanted you to go my boy .
but we moved the ball easily .
and thats what ive seen .
you said you said that that jamison came in and made a difference for the brown but their defense wa the same .
and we moved the ball easily on them .
we hooked the ground .
we moved it easily on them .
they mightve got a seventy five jaden a day .
but we do not have a back to a couple week from now .
it aint gon na be a hundred next week either .
we got to get used to it .
and how physical the giant game are .
hey we to play .
it is gon na be a dog fight .
it is gon na be one of them kind of city raider game where you think it is a blowout but because it is one of them in division game it might be a little closer .
plus a couple of linemen went down .
coluq went down .
he went out .
wiley wa in and out the game .
got to see how they doing .
hopefully brandon coleman be back out of protocol this week .
if coluq out for a while maybe brandon to play or hopefully they could get back back to flipping flopping into whatever whatever .
but well see all that later this week .
well be back on here later this week .
to preview that giant talk about whatever going on in the nba and in the field .
city that going cowboy they losing now fourteenten .
thats it yall .
peace out .
hey everyone welcome back to a. we are gon na be taking a deep dive into something pretty controversial .
it is france ban on hijab in sport .
and you guy shared an article with u from donian.com and it is all about how the un is taking france to task over this whole thing .
i think this deep dive will be super interesting especially because the paris two thousand and twenty four olympics are around the corner .
the timing is crucial with this .
this is not some abstract debate .
this is about real woman and girl who are being told they can not compete because of what they are choosing to wear .
exactly and the article make it clear that this ban is impacting athlete at all level from aspiring olympian to young girl wanting to play football or soccer with their friend .
it go beyond football too .
the french basketball federation also ha a very similar ban in place .
let get to the heart of it .
why is france doing this ?
to understand that we need to understand this concept called llyse dtre .
which is the french approach to secularism. . and it is much stricter than what we see in a lot of other country .
imagine it this way .
the government want to be completely neutral when it come to religion. . a referee in a game they are not picking side .
that make sense .
but how doe that connect to banning the hijab in sport ?
the french government argues that allowing any outward religious symbol the hijab in a public space the sporting event go against this whole idea of neutrality .
they see it a blurring the line between state and religion .
to them the sport field should be a space where everyones religious belief are essentially invisible .
in their eye it is about making sure that everyones treated equally regardless of their religion .
but the un is calling foul on that ?
they are saying that these band are discriminatory .
the un is arguing that by singling out the hijab france is preventing muslim woman or girl from fully participating in society. . think about it .
you are about to go to a basketball game with your friend .
one of them is told she can not play because of her headscarf .
how doe that make you feel ?
yeah no it would make me question the fairness of the whole thing .
and the article specifically mention that there a group of eight independent un expert appointed by the human right council who are making this criticism .
it sound they are not pulling any punch .
yeah thats .
these expert are pretty much the un heavy hitter when it come to human right issue .
and they are saying that by banning the hijab france is limiting freedom of expression and denying these woman and girl an equal chance to participate based solely on their religious belief .
it is we have a bit of a headtohead here .
france say the hijab disrupts neutrality while the un say the ban itself is discriminatory .
it is trying to fit two puzzle piece together that do not quite match .
yeah it is a great analogy .
yeah they are both important piece .
the finding a way for them to coexist is the challenge .
it highlight the complexity of the situation .
there no easy answer .
and both side have valid point .
but let dig a little deeper into the un argument here .
they are not saying that france can not have any limit on religious expression at all .
what they are saying is that any restriction have to be demonstrably necessary and proportionate .
it is saying you can have a rule but it need to be directly related to a specific problem .
and it can not be overly harsh .
in this case the un is essentially asking france to show me the evidence that allowing woman to wear hijab in sport cause harm or undermines the principle of secularism .
exactly. . and they are raising a important point here .
what if this ban is based more on assumption about the hijab rather than any real demonstrable harm ?
thats a good question .
it seems we are getting to the core of this whole debate .
it is not about a piece of clothing .
it is about how we define and uphold individual right within a society that also ha collective value .
you are hitting the nail on the head .
and this is where thing get even more interesting. . because the un is not focused on the hijab ban itself .
they are also concerned about the wider context of intolerance and stigmatization towards hijab wearing woman and girl in france .
wait they are suggesting that this ban might be a symptom of a bigger problem ?
they are indeed .
and thats something well explore further a we continue this deep dive .
this is already giving me a lot to think about .
what stand out to you the most far ?
whats fascinating to me is how this case in france throw a spotlight on this tension between individual right and collective value .
it is a tension that exists in every society .
and finding that balance is never easy .
and i am curious to see how the french government responds to all of this pressure from the un especially with the paris two thousand and twenty four olympics on the horizon .
thats a great point .
the timing of this debate add another layer of complexity .
itll be interesting to see how this all play out .
all let take a moment to absorb all of this .
before we continue our deep dive there still a lot to unpack here .
and i have a feeling this is only going to get more interesting .
weve established that the un is questioning france justification for this hijab ban in sport .
they are urging them to prove that it is absolutely necessary and proportionate .
yeah you got it .
and whats interesting is that the un is not stopping there .
they are calling out france for this wider pattern of intolerance towards hijab wearing woman and girl .
yeah the article mention that they are urging france to actively protect these individual and promote genuine equality and respect for cultural diversity .
it almost sound they are saying hey you need to check yourselves and make sure that this ban is not part of a bigger problem .
they are suggesting that this ban might be a symptom of some deeply rooted prejudice .
remember that hypothetical we talked about earlier the young muslim girl feeling pressured to wear the hijab even if she doesnt personally want to ?
the un is saying that france need to make sure they are addressing the root cause of that pressure rather than focusing on the outward symbol .
thats such an important point .
it is treating a symptom without addressing the underlying illness .
how is france responding to all of this ?
the article did not go into that .
thats because the situation is still unfolding. . but i can tell you this is not the first time that france ha faced criticism over it secularism loss. . especially when it come to the hijab. ?
in fact there a whole history there .
i did not realize this had been going on for long .
can you give u a bit of that historical context ?
france ha this very specific and somewhat unique approach to secularism which they call laicite .
and it go beyond separating church and state. . it is about ensuring that religion is kept entirely out of the public sphere .
no religious symbol no religious holiday celebrated in public school that thing .
exactly. . and this concept of laicite ha been a cornerstone of french identity for over a century .
it stem from their history of religious war and the struggle to establish a republic free from the influence of the catholic church. . for many french people laicite is seen a essential for ensuring equality and preventing religious conflict .
i am starting to understand why this debate is sensitive for them .
but even with that historical context it is hard to ignore the fact that this ban specifically target muslim woman and girls. . how do they reconcile that with their claim of neutrality ?
thats the million dollar question .
france argues that the hijab is more than a religious symbol .
they see it a a political statement even a potential tool for oppression. . they point to case in some part of the world where woman are forced to wear the hijab against their will. . i can see how that would raise concern .
but is not that generalizing an entire group of people based on the action of a few ? .
surely not all muslim woman who wear the hijab are being forced to do .
thats precisely the argument that the un is making. . they are saying that france need to be careful not to conflate the action of extremist with the belief and practice of everyday muslim .
they are pushing france to provide concrete evidence that the hijab itself pose a specific threat to public order. . or to the right of others .
it boil down to whether the french government can justify this ban with concrete evidence .
or if this is more about their interpretation of the hijab and it potential impact on french society .
and thats where this debate get tricky .
because how do you measure something the potential for social disruption ?
what evidence would be convincing enough for both side ?
thats a great question .
and it is something we need to keep in mind a we continue this deep dive. . it is clear that we are dealing with this complex web of historical political and social factor .
and there are no easy answer .
but i think we are getting a much clearer picture of why this debate is contentious and why it matter much not to france but to the world .
you are spot on .
this case highlight the challenge that many country face when they are trying to balance individual freedom with societal values. . it is a conversation thats happening in different form all over the globe .
and a we delve further into this it is becoming increasingly clear that this is not about a piece of clothing .
it is about how we define religious freedom how we address cultural difference and ultimately what society we want to live in .
and with the paris two thousand and twenty four olympics around the corner the world is watching to see how france will navigate these complex issue .
what message will they send to their own citizen and to the global community ?
i do not know about you but i am definitely hooked on this story now .
me too .
it is got history politics social justice international relation .
it is a real life political thriller unfolding before our eye .
and it is a reminder that these issue are not headline .
they have real world consequence for real people .
let take a moment to let all of that sink in before we move on to the final part of our deep dive. . i have a feeling there even more to unpack here .
we are back and ready to wrap up our deep dive on this hijab ban in france .
yeah it is been a fascinating conversation .
it is amazing how something seemingly simple a piece of clothing can spark such a complex global debate .
it highlight how interconnected we all are .
what happens in france especially with the olympics coming up .
resonates far beyond their border .
speaking of the olympics the article did not get into that too much .
but it is hard not to think about how all of this will play out on that global stage .
imagine a muslim athlete being told she can not represent her country because of her hijab .
itd be a powerful image for sure .
and it would force the world to confront this tension between france commitment to lcit and the principle of inclusivity that the olympics are supposed to represent .
it is such a tough situation .
on one hand you have france a nation thats deeply proud of it history and it value trying to uphold what they see a absolutely essential for social harmony .
and then on the other hand you have this global event thats supposed to be about celebrating diversity and bringing people together .
it is almost a microcosm of the challenge facing the world today .
how do we navigate these increasingly diverse society while still respecting individual belief and identity ? .
and where do we draw the line when it come to regulating personal expression in the name of this collective good ?
it is not easy .
and i think this deep dive ha shown u there no simple answer here .
definitely not .
but what strike me is that both side in this debate genuinely believe they are fighting for something important .
france see lcit a the cornerstone of their republic a safeguard against division and conflict .
and the un is equally passionate about protecting individual freedom and ensuring that everyone ha an equal chance to participate in society .
thats what make this compelling .
it is not a case of good versus evil or versus wrong .
it is about two set of deeply held value that are coming into conflict .
and finding a way forward requires understanding empathy and a willingness to engage in some thoughtful dialogue .
what i am wondering is listening to all of this if maybe the way we frame this debate is part of the problem we keep talking about it a this clash between secularism and religious freedom .
but maybe it is more nuanced than that .
yeah thats a good point .
perhaps it is le about these opposing force and more about finding a way for different principle to coexist instead of focusing on what divide u . maybe we should be looking for that common ground .
i think youve hit on something important .
it is not about one side winning and the other side losing .
it is about finding a way to live together that honor both individual right and those collective value .
and that requires compromise understanding and a willingness to see thing from different perspective .
this deep dive ha given me a lot to think about .
and i am sure our listener feel the same way .
whats the key takeaway that you would want to leave them with a we start to wrap up ?
i think the most important thing is to remember this is not a story thats happening over there in france .
this is a reflection of challenge that we all face a we try to build these inclusive and society in an increasingly diverse world .
it is a reminder that the answer are very rarely simple or easy .
and it take that ongoing dialogue a willingness to listen to those different perspective and a commitment to finding that common ground .
this ha been an incredible deep dive .
and i hope our listener feel equipped to continue exploring this topic on their own .
the conversation far from over .
and i have a feeling well be revisiting this issue again in the future. . the world is watching and the stake are high .
they are .
thanks for joining u for this deep dive everyone .
thanks for listening .
until next time keep questioning keep learning and keep striving for a better world .
is absolutely free .
hello everyone and welcome back into the gsmc fantasy sport podcast .
we are now on our third segment of the day here .
i am going to take a little respite from the world of the nfl for a little bit and talk about the world of college football a always .
we talk about nfl fantasy star .
he not a effective a a passer a we want out of a dual threat qb and weve seen it throughout the season .
weve seen him put together very solid rushing performance but havent necessarily seen him pas the football a effectively a you would for someone of his caliber and for someone playing that program .
but against navy at metlife it all came together .
and they are still very much in the discussion .
remember a an independent it might be tougher for them to truly prove to the committee without being in a conference their strength .
and they needed this win against a ranked navy side who for all intent and purpose wa looking they could have upset notre dame with their style of play but ultimately came up very disgustingly short .
navy could not necessarily get anything going .
and notre dame roll on and if you want to see riley leonard succeed this wa the performance that showed that he can succeed in both manner .
the air into the ground and it is a very important one because they face another military academy looking to knock them down a peg in the army .
this performance is truly paramount to the success of riley leonard and it is notre dame team a . congratulation to riley leonard for making this list for the first time .
the running back position this is a guy who going to turn a lot of head in the playoff race especially in the acc thats getting that much more congested a week go on .
how about the shard smith of the smu mustang .
twenty six carry one hundred and seventy seven yard two touchdown twenty seven.four fantasy point .
week before a big game against pitt that prof what those school would be an acc contender .
not for nothing i feel smu is one of those team who relies on the explosiveness they have on the off and the side of the football .
they are going to win game by beating you by scoring a many point a possible before can even blink your eye .
i feel if smu doe not look prepared for that game then they are challenging .
but for the time being i feel smu is going to be a team ready for anything here in the acc down the stretch .
but it is going to be dependent on guy for shard smith to step up because a much a i love kevin jennings there might be a time where his dualfight ability to get exposed and pitt could be that team .
you need that balance on your offense if you are smu but for the time being where shard smith is definitely deserving of a place on my list .
at the wide receiver position it is a little bit tough to parse through these wide receiver performance .
no one stood out but i feel this guy is making his second appearance on my list is one of those guy who you wouldnt have expected starting the year to have a much of an impact a people think .
but a someone who ha been all too familiar with him this season and all too familiar to what he brings to the plate for texas a a texas longhorn spain i think we are starting to see the growth maturity of this young man in the andre moore .
i feel he one of the younger player in that wide receiver core .
he is going to be someone who for many year here at the program would be someone who potentially ha much more room for growth because of the fact no one expected him to break out this early in his career here .
but this game a very rough game for texas where they needed every bit of their offense production fiber reception ninety seven yard two touchdown for a total of twenty four.seven fantasy point for the andre moore .
you are going to need versatility in your offense .
thats the name of the game for texas and what thats what their cradle is that they live by .
look for the andre moore potentially a the season grows on get more and more look at the yrc position .
most importantly have the translate over into many more year of the archimanding era of success for him and this team because i feel this season for texas ha proved to be a wake up call a little bit in their first two real big sec test .
at home to georgia they got knocked down a peg .
on the road to vanderbilt it is now becoming a very tough team to play against at home and not necessarily a pushover anymore here on the sec .
i feel texas is starting to realize what it need to truly compete year in year out in the sec and the andre moore could be an x factor to their success in this conference for many year .
but these are two guy who on national title contending team could prove to be vital integral to their team success .
without further ado let talk about damien martinez and then discus bo pribula .
if there are any game coming up where cam ward ha a slow start is not a effective a you would him to be or your receiver core is a little bit unsettled and look for damien martinez to be a breakthrough star down the stretch of miami .
i feel i do not want to get ahead of myself talking about this game but seeing the hype or that campus expect beaver stadium to be very packed that weekend expect what happens in this one for penn state to stick with this team .
come on down and join u friend we got fun football trivia plus bridge is giving away a gorgeous fifty fiveinch highdeaf bear vision television along with unbelievable drink special and the coldest and most refreshing game beer in chicago land thanks for joining u friend .
he got to show up .
he got to play he ha the last three four game not make mistake leave this team the defense ha to step up see a game but also this is a great offense that yeah i agree man it is gon na be a great .
this is a great offense the best offense that theyve had whats up breaking bruce we love you man .
thanks for joining the show man .
and give him to the bear who already have a bona fide good defense is beyond me .
why would you do that ?
why would you do that big game james ?
they were gon na be in rebuilding mode for a couple year i do not think they were gon na be this good big impact disease had on the team to lead them to a winning record already had they known that daniel wa gon na be this .
i do not think they would have been crazy way sweat to the bear last year .
i am talking about montez sweat he coming at your rib and he coming in hot we got some baby wreck rib that he coming for in washington and he gon na snap your neck get ready you understand j daniel .
we are coming after you pal .
thats what you got to do it is not targeting .
it is football. . this aint powder puff stuff man .
this is football .
they are glad eater they are gon na come at you and he gon na be flinching .
he gon na get ready to throw the ball and he gon na be i am telling them and it is gon na be crazy .
you are gon na see some weird stuff out there and there marcus mariota he is .
he is what he is .
if he wa that good hed be a starter what ?
magic i do not think ive ever seen anyone that high completion percentage a a rookie but i think it is your smart pas and smart pas yeah yeah i agree .
weve seen caleb evolve from a shaky rookie two month ago against tennessee in a poise game changer who wa thrown for seven score against one interception over the last three game where ha he improved the most since his first two nfl game ?
this is montez sweat revenge game .
this is huge all over man and i will say this i think that that is big for him .
i think thats big for him to to come in and then ride high .
weve had three win .
i look for a fourth one man .
i think thats thats very important yeah here a deal .
here a deal .
it is a duel and he doing against daniel .
what statement are you looking for from caleb to make today ?
what what do him doing ?
thats all it matter baby win baby yep for sure man .
yeah what they are trying to do is what the team did to caleb in the first couple game which wa put a lot of try to come with a lot of pressure yeah i think i think there going to be a lot of a lot of pressure .
hey jimmy league .
thanks for showing up man thanks for helping u out back there now i i couldnt agree more man who will be the xfactor on the bear defense to containing the league top scorn offense between the defense of land and the linebacker but i think youll accept .
there going to be edward and edmonds .
i am going to give it to to contain the run if they have no plan edward and edmonds .
yes edward and edmonds .
yeah i could believe how quick we think well be the x factor receiver for williams today do you think that dj moore is going to go off and get three touchdown and two hundred and thirty plus yard ?
hell show up and show out and he also a type of guy thats going to make other player better around him and thats what you need in aroma dunce and i think he even helping dj more out iron sharpens iron or you get exposed absolutely for sure .
i i think that to today it is it is funny and i talked about this on a few show i talked about it friday with brian earl ocher when he wa on the chicago sport podcast show thats pinch yourself .
he wa on our show folk it wa awesome .
i think he but now make no mistake about it he could still go off .
can you hear me baby ?
shes she wa a honey bear man .
she we love her man .
shes always watching our show very supportive she said let go bear .
i hope you can hear u out there .
i hope you are having a good sunday yeah when the dust settle around six thirty tonight or what will be the story of the day and who will be visiting club ?
let bear down on a big win together we will see you after the game for our bear breakdown show live from bridge scoreboard .
you are northwest indiana .
chicago sport headquarters with the hall of fame menu in the coldest beer in chicago and remember next week for arizona we will have quarterback jim miller and big cat williams up here at bridger scoreboard .
make sure you show up for big cat williams and quarterback jim miller at bridge scoreboard for your arizona cardinal game the game in the desert where the bear are gon na stop a muddle in the arizona cardinal until then everybody shine down up and bear down
take you to the crib with your dick in those stair .
whats upstairs ?
shit ima show you later .
do not need a spatula everything catered .
spickle some truck on your mashed potato .
i am trying to love you .
is you gon na let me back ?
yall only get what you get .
aint you ready to dance ?
i do not ask for much .
what i want .
i want whats there .
ill bring that fire and desire baby .
number fourteen .
thank you .
whats good ?
whats good ?
what it is whats good ?
whats happening ?
what it is ?
man wing wiscons sport back again .
not a four hour but we got a good squad today .
what happened ?
christopher tarriton died .
and don on the one that too .
i do not know what you are arguing about now .
if i said come say bye to u we all start the show .
you thought you had time .
yeah then this motherfucker start the show .
he say this from whatever .
listen that is that is that is listen that is the whenever .
died inside the log is onto and he decided to log u off .
tell me come down .
i do not think you are .
have a. we live baby .
everybody doing this week .
everybody doing this week .
i wa homecoming homecoming wa lit .
i saw a i said i wa the first time i saw it .
we had the i am shooting a movie .
one of my homies wa shooting shooting some shit which wa weird to see .
my man coming through with the fucking camera and seeing the fake lab .
app up and shit .
i am nigga do not do not i do not i am not about to be a fucking i am not about to be a fucking i am not about to be a fan of your .
yeah it is it is that jerk .
everybody show me love because i wa that nigga .
and it is a slow .
i wasnt about to be that boy but no i wa dope .
and i had a good time .
i wa i would suggest that anyone who never been to the hampton university homecoming should go .
now how do you get the d in front of it ?
is that .
is that because i am not .
i am asking the question .
some school there the ohio state and there what i am saying ?
doe hampton be a real d or are you giving it to the we are we are the black harbor. . when you get those all the george washington carver of college .
but not local but national national on a national level ?
wa that a sound ?
thats how i am thankful for for i am confused .
my man watch .
what ? .
come on .
not in front of the bro .
howd it get to you ?
he gon na be home soon .
did you go to the you go to the football game ?
i do go to the football game more more time than not .
this wa one of the first home come ive been to where i had zero responsibility .
i i wasnt the person that got the car .
i wasnt the person that drove .
i wasnt the person that had to make sure i wa cool .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to me i would initiate it .
we do he made a black heart .
we do not win a much a we used to .
cause we stepped up and a lot of time when what .
we did a new crowd or whatever .
but whenever we go again some of our old folk we still be spending that .
thats what we want to do .
i went through there slap them up .
they do not know what i am talking about .
they did not it .
they are gon na slap them up .
they homecoming slap them up .
slap what ?
it wa forty seven to seventeen or something .
we wa cool though .
how wa your weekend good brother ?
i wa gon na boy play this weekend .
for the uninitiated where doe the boy play ?
boy play for the tip .
the table is divided appropriately for this ?
because in philadelphia in the powerhouse in high school football you got prep .
weve been what i am saying ?
the dog the kickin the castle for quite some time .
and then you got tep up and coming what i am saying ?
winning of a lower division .
yeah yeah correct .
i am bigger fish in the smaller pond we say .
and then they jump in up into the big pool .
and then you get to see the two powerhouse clash this year hopefully .
we will be in the game what i am saying ?
i am looking forward to that .
and they they did not even get it .
they are pretty good .
they pretty good .
hey listen you can you can argue over here .
we win the state champ it is it is nothing in football .
i aint i aint what ?
you will stay champ over there .
now it is time to come to the big name .
city city city champ .
may everybody come out .
yeah please do .
is there a little wager ?
he way more .
no no no he know way more about the actual player that are on the squad .
we nice and we got young boy .
i do not know what they have .
i will let me let me because i do not want to get stuck in it to a wager .
and then what i am saying ?
if a joint where i should only be betting ten hour when he got me up to .
it can be it can be it can be a comedy fitness you can lay whatever i do .
before i get before i name the term that i am comfortable with i would to do a tiny bit more what i am saying ?
here the name .
please do not take that a my being not being comfortable in my squad .
we win championship .
we win championship .
listen the prep they got my one young boy super tough it is going to be it is super tough .
could be better than brother wayne when it is all said and done .
maybe better than father when it is all said and done .
i am here for all of that .
and i know him basketball .
football they say he an animal .
since you talk about basketball let start there .
let start with basketball because there wa a moment what i am saying ?
shes talking about prep .
he asked who won championship .
there wa a moment in the nba what i am saying ?
that wa her round of world not her but scene round of world .
it wa something that wa led up to a lot of medium behind .
and i want to know if you got if it got you to the point where it wa supposed to get you to did you had the warm and fuzzies ?
why would it give me the warm and fuzzies ?
listen people say it wa a monument .
first time of a father against the play on the court with his son .
no listen thats dope .
you can not take that away from anything that .
regardless of how we feel about king james and bronnick should be there whatever the case may be we are talking about a dad playing with his kid at the biggest stage of a professional sport event for that sport .
you can not get nobody that .
it felt it wa they were doing it he cut me history .
we all know that .
but at the end of the day is it still thorough ?
yes all that .
it would be a hell of a moment for if i am the dad it would be hell of a moment for me .
but outside of that i do not think people care .
no the people care .
they do .
they care .
they do not care .
but people a lot of people care .
the medium care .
it felt it is manufactured .
you played the play .
it wa manufactured for him to go .
but thats what i am saying .
thats why it missed the mark for me .
people keep it all the way through .
it wa when mr. mark for you regardless .
there wasnt too much that could happen .
when he got drafted it did not matter .
yeah that wa what it wa for .
it felt manufactured .
he made the nba and they played together .
i wa thats double shit .
you think i hate lebron but thats not a hypothetical .
lebron would have been leaving all of this behind between me and me .
if he wa good he would have been the same tall friend .
yeah but he not good .
he can play basketball .
he not a nba player now .
no he not .
when nobody say he not an nba player he got nba prospect .
he not .
he a good basketball player .
could be nba nba player eventually .
yeah he also got work on the body .
what six three ?
yeah if that and he got a true point guard .
i am saying it is i do not know if he would have been a doper moment .
he can play defense .
yeah but at least he got skill .
he got something with skill set .
he not a defender a lot of them defender .
no he not .
he too small .
he could become one .
he should be in the g league .
it is great in both now .
yeah i do not care because it is not it is not my team .
all that warm and fuzzy it is not it is not there for me ?
if this wa allen iverson and his son that may be a little different for me because iverson played on my team .
thats my guy .
whatever but it is dope .
shout out to them man .
if it wasnt manufactured if it wa more natural he deserved to get drafted .
and would that have done anything more for you to still feel the same regarding it ?
i do not think there nothing i do not think there anything that could have made the the the the the brown and brown join force .
yeah i do not think there anything it is what it is .
it is a cool little moment .
shout out to them .
they got to do some stuff that never had been done before on the nba level .
they got to have a moment a a father son and then cool .
not a season going what ?
yeah hell pop up on the team from time to time .
they said the yemo they said the boy connect there .
but a much a cat get hurt ?
and brownie is a big enough name that he going to get him caught .
hell get a call up if the injury happen at least once during the league .
at least once .
i refuse to believe whether he deserves to play is another thing .
i agree with you .
i think he at least get whats his name ?
i thought you were going to say something else .
you were saying that you were going to go to the ranch .
how we feel about this nba season man ?
this is terrible man .
i am not in general i am going to take a big picture .
because guess what ?
you got a smaller zion .
you got tatum there .
tatum is going to tear the league as up and talk to the olympics .
you still got the old narrative .
you got the bronze and the jimmy going to be mad .
but you got the shade charlie .
you got the lucas thats mad .
you got ant man that he going to run this league .
i think it is going to be obviously changing in the guard .
i know we previewed it a lot but this is going to be the actual change in the guard .
these young guy is ready .
they are out here booping .
there no one to look at now .
you got lebron and all young player .
steph still there .
we got ed shea luca joel tauris halliburton zion shea .
the young boy from detroit .
we had this time .
we had the top five player in nba now .
you love on the spot top five .
i love u on the spot top five man .
you are playing top five i think .
yolkich ant man tater tater and jolene b jolly john john now i do not see it anymore .
luca jogin tater it is freaking joe no i do not see him now .
and no order but luca joe kitch giannis .
let me take giannis off because i think i think yeah .
i think yeah i think he getting not exposed because that sound he but his limitation are starting to .
whats that ?
i said luca yokitch ant for sure .
you are struggling with that one .
no obvious choice is the obvious answer is you are tatum is but i am trying to make sure that there nobody .
i appreciate that .
i shai and i think shai ha an opportunity to he should be in a and he one of my if i had to put my paper on it before the season and seeing tatum play i would have said shai wa my front runner for mvp .
but tatum he gon na he got a chip on the shoulder .
yeah i guess tatum it is probably his father and and and and and b he unstoppable for sure .
i do not being disrespectful to kd though .
i still think kd is still he unstoppable .
and he yeah it is he do not be healthy .
nah poppa shae and jalen i do not know if i am talking about top five .
i definitely think tatum is better than him .
but i think you said brunson .
i thought you said brunson .
i wa thought of .
top five ?
he aint got a hell no .
aint no thats a hell no .
this is a hell no this is a hell no .
this is a hell no .
thats it .
thats it .
you here .
i thought you meant jalen brunson .
you are here .
we are not here hell no .
it wa a total .
he one dude i am shot out to him .
i think he a tough worker .
i think he talented .
thats top five .
i do not think yeah .
thats top five in nba .
i think he one of them dude that is good .
he ha the ability to be the man on a squad .
something about me still think hed be better off being the second man a opposed to the man .
he worried .
he got worked hard to get a bucket man .
and when you that .
you do not have to work hard to get a bucket .
thats one thing .
you do not got to work hard .
that shit is .
he exerts a lot of energy to get a bucket because he a little hes. . that boy he a good squad .
this is about to be my cowboy .
yeah no no i watched the game too .
it is cool .
it is easy .
but he worked hard .
let me say this .
one thing i always said about dwayne .
we went to the miami heat .
john i never i got watched him but it wa i watched him more .
and i wa damn i never peep how how how much effort he ha to do to get a bucket .
it is a it is a it is a it is a lot of it is a lot of movement .
it is a lot of it is not kd where he rising to the top of somebody or or ai .
he crossing you one time and going to the cup .
it is a lot of it is a lot of getting someone involved .
it is stuff that .
brunson it is a lot of he ha the ability to break down anyone oneonone if the opportunity allows .
but if the opportunity doesnt allow it is a lot then the big man ha to get involved .
and it is a lot of screening .
and then he take a lot of .
i do not know how he take those clothes this is .
i am trying to tell you how i watch people .
no i hear little disagreement on on on on .
and i i the young boy .
i think he wa a boy .
i think he wa a boy .
that look good .
i think neighbor are pink picking .
but i think i think you are hitting mostly the play .
i know yall love him .
he not one but i do not know .
unless it will leave the it is fine .
it is fine .
ill be the ill be the outlier .
and be .
you can not be you can not be the the caucasian james heart and then be one in my book .
what do you mean james heart ?
he showing the bill .
he always showed him the bill .
that always ?
he the stats .
look at his stats in the playoff .
what are you talking about ?
what are you talking about ?
and this is the first time wasnt it the last year ?
the first time being at the first run ?
look at his stats in the playoff .
look at his stats in the playoff .
the question is thats what he doe .
you can not say james heart .
he a ball .
you can not he not you can not .
look at his number .
listen in the playoff .
look at his number in the playoff .
he gon na dribble the air out the ball .
look at his number in the playoff baby .
what did you watch yourself ?
you watched him dance .
dott said we want since you came in real notch a lot we wasnt on area man .
thats a fire jacket .
shout out to the people .
shout out to the people .
the car were you in there ?
i am here for that sake .
bringing swag to the school spirit .
this is the school spirit on swag .
wa that one of the school ?
no this is johnson exclusive .
i am saying who paid ?
i am saying this is johnson exclusive .
did you use the petty cash ?
no petty cash ?
no this is straight out the principal pocket .
the principal budget ?
we asked the pocket of budget .
this is one of the budget .
i am still in money from this school .
shout out to my bro from mastin mine .
i know my creation .
he creates varsity jacket .
he hooked the brother .
hey thank you brother .
get you on the speed .
we talked about first we talked about the woman first we talked about lebron and his son playing together .
dang paolo got thirty seven .
if you had a woman if it gave you the woman .
and then jerv said hampton is the carer in this of college .
he said that .
you agreed though .
he said let me be clear .
he said that i said yeah but they are local or national .
who local ?
who local ?
i am asking the i do not know who local .
hampton or carer who he saying is local ?
no i am asking the question .
i got number to show you carver .
number twenty seven .
but talk your shit .
number twenty seven in the what ?
twenty seven in the state .
number eight hundred in the country .
eight hundred .
thats eight hundred high school .
what number are you in the country ?
what number is in there ?
any comment i am about to make .
we will argue about anything .
number three number three in the city too .
number three in the city .
beautiful young man or young lady that attends this glorious high school and is putting that work in and is doing their thing to get them to be ranked .
but do not say but cause then there gon na be .
whatever work .
thats not .
how i do numbers. . bro i can go i can go thirty minute of the row out the state and i who ?
they go thats what they gon na .
you think about the brand .
he told you on two different page .
yeah you think about the brand .
he saying we were talking sport and stuff .
i . you talking about sport .
you are in your educator bag now .
i generally talk sport when we when we sit at this table .
you are on hand in sport .
when we sit at this table we generally talk sport .
there you are .
get your mind on the .
he said school .
i thought he said school .
yeah we we have .
you talking about education .
thats what i thought .
thats what i thought too .
i did not know what you baby .
how can i compare ?
how can i compare a prestigious university to a high school ?
yeah thats not fair to yall .
no it is not fair to yall .
no it is not fair to yall .
cause you do what number you are in the in the country ?
and what ?
what are you asking me ?
you want to know number number one ?
and being great .
some of u eight hundred is cute .
listen both of yall are great .
ill set out the head .
i heard yall do have the best homecoming .
i heard the best best hbcs .
i heard it .
this is something called gh .
gho and gh .
i heard it number one .
let not do this .
new carolina at .
i heard it wa taufa but i heard him .
it is this .
be honest .
and it is and it is definitely a historically dope homecoming .
and i will say gho is dope .
here you go .
the same way my man said across here and said that about tep and we are now in the big dog of homecoming .
and we are here to make it make it be known .
i expect you to say that though .
walk up to .
nah you do not want you do not want to go to homecoming in the project .
i do not going to homecoming in the project .
anybody out there watching out there what i am saying ?
theyve been to all these homecoming .
let u know what you think man .
top five nba player now .
can not do the all time .
it is playing now .
not it could or the top .
do not not in the felt .
you do not want to show up .
honestly it is been a minute since i watched the nba .
it is the new people because it is the boy .
it should be .
who the boy that looked ?
thats not going .
the one that the one that .
each time you got to ask somebody it is top five .
and they say who the boy ?
the top five .
you pas pas on that .
i would agree with that .
i said luca jokic tatum and b and .
and b line my top five .
and antman .
yeah thats thats why i wa i did not know his name .
top five .
i did not know his name .
yeah man definitely in my top five .
but not in b though .
hows the entire freaking hardly play ?
yeah but he most most dominant player in the league now .
yeah he most dominant player in the league now .
the motherfucker scored seventy point last year in the game .
he the most dominant player in the league .
it is it is it is .
thats my pain .
let switch gear a little bit .
it is my pain .
but no no but the issue the problem wa wa you talking about luca .
i am going to put a curve on the .
the issue yo you you the issue .
i do not want to see the night .
the issue wa he said luca .
it is not number one .
it is a j. that that .
and he said it is j. called cajun james first .
who number one ?
who your five ?
who your five ?
who your five ?
i agree with yall four .
who five ?
who your who your who five ?
i did not say it wasnt top five .
i say it is not number one .
who the top five ?
who your five ?
who the top five ?
he would probably be five .
who your five ?
who your top five ?
i got to do order but you all got to say it .
i want to go and be .
and i am trying to say i do not want to go and be .
i think yanis is still if we are going you could you could yanis is a dominant a ambitis except yanis .
he down here .
he only down here .
he only down here .
he only down here .
yanis is only down here .
sometimes being if you do something what i am saying ?
yeah but guess what ?
you are one trick pony .
what season ?
i am not saying he a he a he he more versatile .
i am saying when he want to do the one thing that he doe he doe it probably especially in playoff .
to this point he done it better than joe than than ambitis .
hell do better than hell do better than than than bull .
i wanted to talk about injury real quick .
she had a part i do not i do not care about money .
she had a part she had a part .
that that that what did that come on ?
the mics hot .
yeah not not not with d. george washington and his cart cart cart .
i am not even a little bit of slander. . that wasnt disrespectful. . hey all let talk .
what you want to talk about ?
she did a podcast when she talked about her .
he came prepared .
he came prepared .
he want you to get what you i am going to pull a driveline .
what you are not going to do is you are not you are not going to speak for me when i am when i am trying to help you out because clearly you want to get to where you want to go .
i do want to talk about no do do the .
do get out the way .
what we say about it .
she did a podcast when she talked about her mba salary and how much she make it .
how much she make versus how much she spends .
she say shes living outside of mean .
her salary is seventyzero .
eight thousand .
no but eightyzero a year .
no but eightyzero .
no but eightyzero .
no but eightyzero .
no but eightyzero .
no but eightyzero a year .
no eight thousand a month .
eight thousand a month .
thats over here .
wish our thought on that type of logic from a. from a sport star .
the thing is the thing is when you talk about her she looking at her she do not know her finance .
shes young .
shes probably do not .
she probably got somebody else .
she probably got somebody else working on her finance ?
but she wa asking .
she did not even know that .
she did not even know what wa going on .
she did not know her money .
she wa saying this .
she did not know anything .
what i am saying is shes looking at her wma contract .
thats first .
that she only made seventyzero apartment .
eight thousand .
but guess what ?
her endorsement and anything else cover that .
she did not look at individual stream of income. . shes looking at .
i can afford this stuff .
let me let me phrase it this. . let say this wa your daughter. . and they are going strictly off of what she said in the interview. . i am going to get a rebog or because strictly what she said in the interview .
we do not know the logistics of it .
she got all those contracts. . and shes being in front of the fact that shes living outside of mean .
what would you say to her ?
but shes not living outside of mean .
shes living outside .
the thing is shes living out of her mean if she only had that one stream of income .
thats the thing is the thing is the issue is and thats how i said she did not know what it wa because she got other multiple stream of income .
but technically shes not living out of her mean because she got the endorsement .
she got that now that that shoe deal she got paper .
but if it wa if it wa if she wa only if she wa a regular wma player ?
guess what ?
she wouldnt be having that eightzero apartment whatever it is .
i can guarantee that .
she probably wouldnt even even even close .
she probably wouldnt even be trying to have an eightzero contract because one thing that i am saying male or female one thing that come along with when you go to the wma .
you are a male or female one thing that come along with when you become a high profile athlete is that you got to live a certain way .
you got to get the perception that you live a certain way .
you need a certain little security too .
i think i get what don wa saying .
i know the other guy .
i did not say that .
i said i do not know what i know what i know .
i did not say that .
i did not say that .
i did not understand don what ?
it is three night of louse and then have to tell you what to call for it .
who third ?
yeah who third ?
he not louse .
he is not part of the deluge .
he not louse .
yall aint standing that far apart from each other .
when we do the skin complex we are not going to get into the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the skin complex .
we not going to get into that .
i am not going to do this .
no i am saying yeah to chris point shes without without hearing the whole without hearing the whole full context of everything she wa saying going off of the thing ive heard and read .
shes not saying that shes broke .
shes shes what i what i think shes doing i think shes highlighting at the time because i am pretty sure i am pretty sure there a collective bargaining grating and grating .
i am pretty sure there a collective bargaining grating and grating .
i am pretty sure there a collective bargaining grating and grating .
i am pretty sure there a collective bargaining agreement or some contract or something that ha to be .
it is not but thats a there something that or there i am sorry they are trying to they are trying to force a renegotiation .
yeah. . of their of their salary .
mind you the wnba reported that this season wa the first one .
they lost forty million .
but they they want to update contract .
the buying up the the bill thats dropped after the first month of spring .
but the cl of people in the snow the the the deuxime bookium lunchsafe that wa the out to the  and the beach they gon care what ?
thats thats i hope i hope that the way she came off in that interview is not factual .
cause better played player better played athlete have gone broke .
to this point if she doesnt know or understand her own finance and shes living outside of me to that point because we are talking about shes living outside her mean in regard of where i live versus my wma contract .
to chriss point she ha other endorsement but i am sure shes spinning .
if shes living outside her mean in that regard what i would say she need a better financial advisor .
her financial advisor should not be saying you can go get an eightzero a month condo .
but she also ha if thats what it is ?
but she should also have better understanding of her finance or somebody but you are putting yes you are correct .
she should have a better but being that she is what twenty one shes been in certain level .
shes been getting money since nineteen at a million rate that money keep coming in .
to her it is there .
she need that person .
every single person need to be able to say whether you are ten fifteen twenty five or thirty five she need that person to say but can you my man losing his mind .
i am scratching .
yo shout out to angel .
we gave you fifteen minute .
we gave you fifteen minute to tell u about how broke you are what you not with .
and i do not understand why you even mentioned it on the podcast .
why would you tell ?
and i do not make it easy .
what did you wan na talk about ?
cause i feel you came with it .
i wan na talk about the nfl season .
basketball cool but we are not even you are .
it is cause you do not basketball .
why are you talking about baseball too ?
who that ?
it is cause you do not basketball .
at grand slam the freaking we are a robber .
anybody in rob comment ?
i do not mind talking about that .
did we talk about what happened to him ?
who your i am not talking to phillies. . i realized what we did .
they said to phillies the reason why and this is coming from somebody .
he such a dope .
they said a real mega hat .
the reason why we are losing cause we are too white .
who said that ?
white guy .
on the team ?
no not on the team .
he said the reason why we are losing is because we are too white .
because we got you .
we do not have me .
it is something you should say out loud .
hey you shouldnt say that .
there certain way you are supposed to say it .
how you are supposed to say that is the phillies do not put enough resource in getting not no to getting latinborn play .
no thats i think when people told up they are not saying they need black people .
yeah i know that .
i know that .
they are talking to midkids .
i understand but you can say the comment without naming a race .
no but i did not i wa with you on the resource part .
they could have used specific i see whats happening .
what happened ?
you came with an agenda .
you are about to turn me into a racist because you wanted to let me say this .
and then i am gon na shut up because i see what you want to do .
we are watching .
it is it is made a credit card .
we are watching the espn algorithm ?
hear me out .
i wasnt even saying that about that though .
hold on my brother .
i know you are going with this .
people be yo how come i am not gon na let you do that .
but guess what ?
because you are gon na they be yo how come every single time i turn on a tv they talking about a excuse my language .
a bum as squad that do not win no game .
how come we are always talking about them ?
we tried to talk about the nba and one of the most historic thing we ever seen in life which wa a father and son playing best .
my man said i did not have a problem with that .
he said i did not have a problem with that .
what sir ?
i did not have a problem with that .
i did not have a problem with the father and son coming .
the time is yours .
you got it brother .
see why you got ta go there man ?
that wa you are gon na be shocked at what i am saying .
we wa talking about baseball and the resource .
now we are making a comment .
i know but you wa i know but you wa fishing there .
i wa fishing by the angel reese .
the play back of the the angel reese i wa i wa watching you .
i wa stealing over the angel .
i couldnt believe we spent fifteen minute on my angel reese on the podcast .
that wa wild to me .
it would be that wa wild to me though .
angel reese on the podcast is wild .
i feel hey listen if it is important to you it is important to me .
whats next ?
what is important to you sir ?
we are in on my team .
we do not have to start on my team .
you can not change the whole format of the show .
you can not walk in late .
you can not walk in late .
stand in front of the camera .
what about football ?
get mad at the angel reese topic .
we on football now and now i say we can talk about my team last .
yeah ill start .
what team when the season started who did you expect to be where they are ?
who did not you expect to be where they are ?
can i go first ?
he had it he wa about to say it .
from at the beginning of the season .
who meeting expectation ?
who not meeting ?
who did you expect to be where they are ?
who did not you expect to be where they are ? .
if you remember when we did our first .
you said that also to be third .
thats what you about to say ?
this aint about dallas .
i wa i . something with my man .
i did not even say that word .
thats you .
no you said it at the beginning of the season .
all i said wa in the beginning of the season .
i wasnt going there but yes i did say that .
i am acknowledging. . i said that the niner were going to have a little bit of trouble .
i wa about to .
i wa about washington .
i wa watching the .
washington is .
you the cowboy .
i am going to win the .
washington is going to make the playoff .
remember that .
all . . i should say. . no i feel it .
there some thing i wa wrong but all the top of my head that wa three thing i wa about .
i get you that. . no that wa .
you wa on those .
i do not know if you were on a christmas .
you wa on the niner .
i wa on the cowboy .
cowboy in third .
i got my one during that .
thats what i wa .
the last one is .
i remember what i remember what yall .
i remember what yall said .
i remember what yall said in the beginning .
i remember him talking crazy about the cowboy .
i remember him talking about detroit .
listen we are going to let him .
we are going to review it .
we are going to let him do that .
you got to calm down a little .
you got that .
sit the way .
we are making it for me tough .
but i said the 49ers is going to start slow .
you said two of them might be mvp .
thats not what i said .
not this year .
that wa last year .
that wa last year .
somebody i say that .
the two of them were last year .
i said jalen daines wa going to be the best rookie quarterback hand down. ?
what else doe that say ?
we were all about the chief .
we all said the chief were going to be the chief again .
you aint had to be that .
what are we doing ?
what are we doing ?
i showed you love .
i think we all had our .
here the thing .
here the thing .
here the thing .
here the thing .
where wa everybody wrong at though ?
i wa wrong about jordan love .
i thought the packer were going to be .
although technically i wa about the packer saying that the packer were going to be where they are at .
but i wa wrong about jordan love .
jordan love wa definitely in my mvp conversation .
i wa wrong about jordan love. . i wa wrong about my cowboy .
in which way ?
you wa against jordan love .
that do not mean you are wrong .
i think you i think you .
no i thought jordan love wa a trend .
i thought he wa a trend .
he wa a trend .
he hated jordan love .
because i wa i said he not that .
he but is he that ?
he that .
he that .
that in term of what ?
whats what you mean by that ?
he outside the top line .
outside the top line .
but that do not mean that to me .
i did not have a father that .
now i am going to in the field .
he sixsix .
ill say this .
hell probably hell be in espn top one hundred this year .
but thats .
i wouldnt do that .
that is a hard feat .
thats why i asked .
but that is a hard feat though .
no no thats why i asked what do you how you say .
second force is a point .
that is what i am saying .
i give it those thing .
i do not think he the top five for the bed .
if somebody wa on that hill i could tell you something .
i could tell you what they wa wrong .
i wa wrong about the jet .
i wa wrong about the jet .
i wa definitely wrong about the jet .
i wa wrong about the angle .
i got wrong about the scene here .
i thought pittsburgh would be nice .
i think we all saw pittsburgh .
i am going to tell you i got a big one i wa wrong about .
in the all season .
yeah he easy .
he a monster .
listen this is the thing .
we are going to be wrong about some thing .
well be about some thing .
when you look at the nba season though natted is shaking out the way he shaking out .
i wa saying he by that .
he by that .
that wa about to go on .
ask what nfl .
what we doing ?
natted youve identified some thing that youve identified a or wrong .
do you think the trend continue though ?
now how doe it go from this point ?
i still think it is not a way to halfway point .
the choice seem to be .
not a way to halfway point .
give me three more prediction .
now that youve seen half a football three more prediction you can base it on what youve seen thus far .
whats that ?
three more prediction .
i predict that the red the commander continue going throughout the season .
cowboy continue to diminish .
i predict the .
can they hear you ?
it is a little he wa talking to the air .
we probably look crazy now if they can not hear you .
you want to see the speed .
whats the third one ?
you want to see the cowboy do ?
you said that one already .
you gave u two .
they were looking for you to give a third one .
you did not give it to me .
he did not say that .
he said it wa top three .
yeah he said give u your third one .
do not stop trying to check me .
bro you be low key condis .
i said stop worrying about whats coming out .
thats what you talk about .
all type of wildness .
i am going to give my three prediction because i do not want any of this smoke .
because you are talking about it now .
i think yall coach get fired .
i think .
wait wait when fire win .
you think end season ?
not now but i think in the latter couple game of the season when it is clearly .
once that x or whatever it is the astros for elimination or whatever i think that i think baker may feel continues to be whatever the fuck this is that we are watching now .
and i think tampa bay win the division .
thats in three way .
my trippin and my mrs. atlanta .
and they are not soft .
their record should be .
atlanta five and three and whats four .
four and four .
it could be. . but i think baker continues to excel .
and i think what you are going to play i am not saying he nice that but i think the patriot got themselves .
they have something of something that they have to at least continue to evaluate .
and i think that they i think that they will win more game than they probably want to win .
the not being at top two or three to even though they do not need a quarterback to have the ability to trade that pick god forbid you get one .
then you got everyone trying to get shador or whoever is the number one quarterback .
and i think i think minnesota come .
i think they fall fall off a little bit .
i not not for a whole season .
i am going to go with i think detroit is the team to beat nfc .
full compliment team office and defense .
brings to the anchor that defense which i think the eagle messed up because they should have picked them over known smith but whatever .
and then their office is dynamic passing office of line running they got the best office in nfl now .
i think on the opposite side no keep it in the north nfc north i think three team in the north will make the playoff .
and the thing is it could be it could be all four but i guarantee they got a picture .
it is going to be three for the beard .
i think the beard is is there a beard is a hard out .
now they started you play the bear out of easy out defensively .
they got a great defense and then young boy caleb in that office he got weapon .
it is not a hard out .
that and i do believe that if this is what game three or four the nichols out .
this is three coming up .
three coming up .
i believe that no i am sorry this is thursday it is not one more .
four year .
next wa the week before .
i believe that houston texas when nicole collins come back probably the best team in the afc .
kansa city is playing but they are barely winning .
i think i think houston is going to be the best team in the afc once nichols once nichols come back .
both predictions. . ill go i think josh out of win mvp .
i thought that wa a little i thought it wa a little bit of a time thing .
i think i agree with jerry from minnesota falling back down the earth .
i think ill go nfc .
i would say i got i think i think baltimore unceased kansa city .
if i go who the best team in the afc if i go i would probably baltimore .
i think i think he might deserve it .
i do not think they are going to give him another one .
i think it is it is one of those thing where it is fatigue what i am saying ?
and i think they are going to look at here what i think a lot of josh what buffalo six and two ?
i think they are going to look at josh out in season and say he did it with nobody .
if they keep it up they are going to win the division .
the division terrible now .
they are going to win the division .
all my three i think the division is two of his last season in the nfl .
i think this is it .
bull prediction .
yeah thats the ball .
i think this is yeah i think i think yeah i think he done .
thats going to change our name in miami .
i think that i think that if cincinnati loses i am going to say two more game i do not think jamar stay in cincinnati .
he hasnt gotten his contract yet .
that wa already an issue .
and if they continue to lose this i do not see why he would want to stay .
ill be curious to see what that look .
and then number three slowly but surely on the low bronco sneaking to the playoff on the low .
nobody paying attention to them .
no one paying attention to them but on the low they they they moving .
i can see that happening and sneak in there .
yeah thats a good thats a good i got one more .
we all go with me .
everybody got one more now .
there you go .
i think that i think the cheese is going to it is going to be ugly .
i think they are going to flirt with a long undefeated type type season .
i could see them being fourteen fifteen and old type shit .
and resting piece to my man mercury morris but i wouldnt be shocked if i am one of them dude that i storyline and shit .
i wouldnt be shocked if the year that he after he pass that that wouldnt be the first year that we see someone go undefeated .
and the only game that i if i am looking at this the only game that looked crazy for them wa it wa ant buffalo .
ant buffalo versus houston and the atkinson .
i am saying now those three i do not think my one more ?
those aint this those aint this .
whats up ?
i think i think we about to be saying i am not we are we are .
i think we bought the resurgence of let rus cook .
it is about to be here .
do not let ryan you say it for real .
doe that mean that you put that a the piss the piss what they i think i think pittsburgh will win the division .
you did what it wa ten and seven ?
no i got them they probably gon na go twelve .
listen here one thing one thing for certain two thing for sure .
we can we can disagree about a lot of thing .
i hope you all disagree with this .
j.j. watt t.j. watt is hand down the best defensive player in the nfl ?
i am saying the best defensive player in the nfl .
i think he the best but if someone argued me mile ago i wouldnt do too much .
i agree with you .
but i t.j. watt he ha a knack for making clothes out please i do not know .
he both he playing here .
he playing here .
but yeah i think rus will we bought the we bought the here starting here in the name again a little bit .
must have i wa ryan wa here .
thats what we must say .
that wa my one more .
yeah my one more is that i do not see i do not think san francisco will win the nfc west .
who you got winning it ?
the ram ?
if san francisco you hurt i can see it but .
i am gon na say i do not see you got they all they all four and four .
yeah but san francisco is hurt .
nobody else is everybodys outside the chief .
no one playing more football than san francisco in the last four year .
and i think we are seeing it .
thats thats thats thats i think .
i do not always read that .
no i think i think i think i think me personally i think that arizona is gon na take a step .
now i do not think nobody reckons it is gon na be high .
i think arizona will out out .
you think arizona they got ta win they got ta win in game .
i think arizona won .
i think here here here thats a thats a. it is a it is a it is a bow bow .
it wa ram though .
it wa ram though .
i think i i do not i do not necessarily disagree with you .
it wa a hard it wa a hard but i think i think you had two opinion that counterdicked each other .
who wa that ?
you said you got three team from the nfc south making it ?
north he saying .
i do not i do not see that happening .
if the cardinal win we are gon na play .
i think we are i think .
my thats my prediction is that this yall do not go to playoff .
my prediction is that whenever it win the west is gon na go to playoff .
i disagree with that .
thats my thing .
cause the north is going to they may have three team in it .
i wa with it until i did .
thats my thats my thats my bold prediction .
we we we talked about the purdy in the purdy aint purdy .
what do you mean ?
you had three hundred did not he throw for three hundred and twenty five three touchdown ?
this this thats given the game for the people did not say it .
wouldnt everybody hurt ?
what what gentleman hurt it when everybody wa hurt ?
simply he did it .
he did not play .
he he he he he played .
and everybody hurt .
i do not want to quote me to that but we are not gon na do .
he said it .
what you mean ?
he said it .
he good cause he said it but i i agree .
is allow someone .
he at me .
can i can i put one of your move real quick ?
give me your top five quarterback in the nfl ?
not after not after this sunday .
that wa never in anybodys .
that wa the beginning .
it wasnt me .
i do not have to. . somebody stood somebody said in that chair there when chris wa not here i wa happening to be sitting here .
you were there .
ryan wa here .
someone had matter of fact chris wa here .
he wa sitting in between the two of you .
and i wa sitting in between the two of you .
someone had a fucking fit .
because we said there wa more than one quarterback in the nfl better than that press guy .
tell me how thats not saying .
he said it wasnt top five .
the man said he wa .
what i said wa when we went through top five yall said pat mahon from josh island .
then i came in and said whats the difference between josh island ?
thank you .
thank you .
i said whats the difference between josh island and that press guy ?
when it come to the playoff they both choke .
this wa before all this trash .
it wa not no answer my question .
hold on hold on .
hold on hold on .
i am correcting you because i did not say dak wa a number two .
i said that it is funny how yall think dak is not even in the top five when he comparable to josh island .
it is what i said .
thats what i said .
to clarify did i not say that ?
then i asked you do you feel dak press guy is better than josh island ?
who everyone at the table ?
time out time out .
it is my turn .
on my skip bail list you had it is my turn to speak. ?
when everyone at the table said josh island wa number two you said you felt that dak we all had josh at two .
except for one person who wa fuming and brought up the comparables .
and then i said you think that dak is better than josh island ?
and my man said you are reaching you are reaching .
you are reaching .
you can make here you go .
i know what happened .
you are reaching .
you did not mention that josh island part at all .
he got ta be accurate if you wan na quote me .
but i am gon na be accurate with it .
i said josh island and dak were comparable .
this wa leading up to that .
i am not i am be realistic at the end of the day .
he playing trash .
is that press got a top five course ?
you get a foot down twice the same foot ten .
no it is got to be two foot no .
twice that he can score a touchdown with good .
unless it count a football move .
you get one foot in twice ?
if you can do it a a if it is one foot if it is called if they say it is a football move then they count it .
he got a touchdown .
thats not a football move .
you can make a football move .
he got two touchdown but do not have no touchdown .
he aint saying it can be passed yeah .
he got two touchdown but do not touch the ground .
he gon na go for a better .
see you must have the whole job .
let talk about it .
everyone stopped and watched the george .
they couldnt make it .
don none of yall clearly want to .
do not make me not argue about it .
i do not want to argue about it .
there no argument to be had .
whats your way of arguing ?
yall should talk .
i do not know yall play .
you should get your shit off .
it is confident when the eagle win a game .
i am supposed to not be confident .
who that ?
who saying it wa a shit ?
yeah i am confused .
you are not supposed to be confident .
hold up .
we got five .
which yall got ?
i get you not qualified to talk about this .
which yall got two win ?
see here the thing jerv .
when we lose i do not mind coming to a podcast and talking about it and owning it .
when yall lose yall even show up to the freaking podcast .
then it disappear when yall have a bad game .
then there only when the game let say it wa a monday night game .
would you be here if the eagle come in late ?
can i ask you this ?
can you answer my question first ?
i am about to answer your question good brother .
i am gon na answer your question .
can i answer it now ?
you lowheight .
because you look you are not your height .
every monday i ask don is this the monday chris is gon na be at the podcast or not ?
if don say only reason i showed up the day because i did not think chris wa gon na be here because chris week would have been last week .
yeah would be .
but there wa no show .
only reason i definitely showed wa because ryan said he wa not gon na be here .
however no matter what happens this weekend let me tell you again i told you two week ago when you said this same shit when you said the same shit let me tell you i will not be here next monday .
however i will be here the following monday .
here the thing .
he will not .
thats my point .
well play .
well play .
we to watch it .
i do not watch game with the eagle fan .
i am damn sure not about to watch game with people that do not want my team to win .
i do not even watch it with people that want my team to win .
hey some people are very insecure .
no some people to be by themselves and watch forty of it .
it is safer that way .
i am saying we do not come to the eagle play .
because we to watch .
i want to know that .
i am getting a little bit of that eagle fan are confident now .
this is going to be a little bit of a run .
you want to hold the hope. . no no no .
ask me about the eagle .
ask me about the eagle .
here you go .
i have a realistic eagle conversation with you real quick .
i said when aj brand you wa in here i got you .
do not cut his shirt .
because i heard you say nigga we about to lose .
hold on .
now ive given my weekly prediction however many time it is a separate one week .
i probably have picked the eagle lose at least three times. ?
there no homerism there sir .
now what ill say is that if you ask me about my squad i think the defense is playing better .
they are not playing a an elite defense but they are not playing a a bottom feeder .
they are middle of the pack .
and thats cool for now .
i the improvement .
i how nicoby dean is getting better .
and i think that with my man darius slay being injured every other play .
and then what i wa putting koop is .
thats not who i am .
thats not who i am talking about .
i am trying to say cooper being put in the slot .
thats what i wa trying to say .
cooper being in the slot ha helped out the defense. ?
and i think that jaylin hertz now is playing better football .
they are still .
we have offensive line issues. ?
we have a coach issue still because he a buffoon and special team .
and it is cool .
but bottom line is i am not sitting up acting we .
my man said the lion are the best team in football .
we did not say that the eagle no one had .
keeping it being until you brought .
no thats what he said .
until this until you brought up the eagle now and said i see this .
but i am showing you the difference .
if this wa two year ago but if this wa two year ago youd have been hearing equal shit all season .
i am not saying you are not confident .
there still hole in the team .
i am saying listen we are a weak what ?
and normally it is a weak but this is the first week where i heard our chest is pumped .
that sound a good team .
thats not my argument .
i am saying this is the first week .
you are asking if we are confident .
i would say that i feel healthy .
i feel if our roster go up against any roster in the nfl if they are healthy i feel we have a chance to beat anyone .
and it is not two year ago where i felt whoever the fuck it wa it did not matter .
we were beating them .
but i think now there not too many team where i am damn we play them .
we can not beat them .
i think we have a chance .
there no team thats scared .
they scare me .
however i am one of them people that go it is detroit ?
the fucking ball bounce supposed to bounce out of bound but somehow somewhere when it come and it blow the ball back in bound and it stay in bound against the scuba score for touchdown or something. ?
shit happens .
i think we could be detroit but if i am not shocked that when we play detroit if we were to play detroit the detroit the favorite .
and again i would fully expect detroit to go in a the favorite .
fully healthy fully healthy .
fully healthy .
i our team to say anybody fully fully healthy .
i do not think i do not think there not a corner in the nfl that can fuck with aj brown .
and that not even trying to talk shit .
i do not think there a corner in the nfl that can fuck with aj brown .
and i how the young bull quinn quinn mitchell is is playing .
quinn mitchell is playing better .
he playing against number one receiver .
i am excited about that shit .
there no there no gimmick .
there no there no he happens to pick off pass because no he doesnt get kept for shit .
can not get for shit but you are not going to get shit .
he he go it is going to be in completion .
you prefer wedding because he not going to pick it off .
it is going to be in completion .
but i our chance against majority of the team in the nfl .
and i think we have an opportunity to be one of the four team remaining .
and once you do that anythings possible .
we doing this .
is it my other team ?
can you take it ?
on the eagle .
whatever you want whatever you want to talk whatever your little hard desire daryl .
honestly i honestly knew i wa going to win .
i have a question for yall though a eagle fan .
not coach but coordinator .
you say even if your team is fully healthy are you confident in your office or coordinator the way ?
thats because i know you .
i know you are coordinated .
thats why i am asking you .
when it come down to it i believe that also now yall going to play off .
yall in the playoff or now ?
because the issue is both you have you have a good team .
yall roster is crazy ?
but your coordinator i your d quarter seems to have a to your point you are up and playing d better but your office is still your office .
now jalen hurt had a good game but is that going to be consistent ?
he probably one of the last couple game but i got you talking about one specific game .
the issue is .
listen these are my coordinator .
the coordinator called some pretty good call .
it is it is jalen seeing the field .
thats thats my issue .
it aint it aint a plate calling .
it is the quarterback seeing the field at time .
the issue is for me pound and ground and pound absolutely .
they got to .
i think we have to be i do not think anybody can fuck with it .
i think itd be a run first offense and then pas the bat .
and we are going to the honestly i heard a clip from seriani and he said and this wa after last week when she caught at one hundred and seventy six he wa saying we never lose our identity .
that wa a good game but we are going to see how each game go .
and we do not know if we are going to run the ball .
every time we won last year is we ran the football .
every time we lost one of the pas walking the nfl wanted to be a passing glorious through the ball around the field .
thats me .
we run the ball with the line that we have to shake off barkley with jalen hertz and then play action off of that and throw it to the receiver .
thats what i see .
and defensive play much better .
and the reason why we play much better is because we are doing thing we havent done since jimmy johnson been in this blizzard .
we are in blizzard till this year .
yeah there you go .
do i have concern about kellen moore ?
yeah this is probably the most weapon he ever had .
maybe this is the year he doe .
maybe this is the year he doesnt fall short .
and this is not a shot at you .
but if kyle shanahan people can tell me that all the shit that ive seen every single year is not about to happen this year ?
one year it is not going to happen .
most likely one year .
kyle shanahan will lead a team whether it is the niner or the next team whatever hell lead a team most likely to a championship. . why can not you man ?
i know itll sting because not one of the eagle and they are also damn he can not do that shit for u . i do not think your head go with that .
your head go with final and messed it up .
i do not think our head .
i think one thing weve seen in the last couple of week ever since the whole talking to the fan and all that shit .
homie i do not think he doing too much to be honest with you .
it is serious .
i think yall have .
when it come to that i think you have .
i think anytime it is something bad you are going to blame sirianne anytime .
it is not bad .
the band if it is not it is not the word bad .
it is anytime the offense look stale .
it is .
when they do something i get it .
thats not it is not it is not even out of place .
it is when they do the shit that that it is when they do the shit that doesnt make them look other nfl team which is little simple shit motion .
you blame the guy .
no i blame the guy that thats the consistent guy thats here .
whenever the motion i am saying i think i think kelly moore ha been calling the police .
i think everything that i do not know that is the most .
and i think yall do not i do not think you let jalen check out of a lot of stuff too .
that might be part of the problem too .
i might be part of the problem too .
i do not think that either .
you do not think jalen is checking out ?
i do not want to say he doe not check out because i am sure he doe .
but i do not think it is at the rate that you are probably insinuating that he checking out .
and the reason i can say that i can tell the difference between what appears to be a serianity called not maybe maybe a oneoff play note .
ill say this .
ill say this .
i wa listening to the game .
i wasnt watching .
it wasnt much motion .
it wasnt any .
they throw it up to aj brown throw it up to the vincenzo. . it looked the same .
but people will say thats more a opposed to saying it is the same shit .
i agree with that .
he a difference maker .
i think i think i think and i think all fan to a certain extent have this notion. . when when the bad when the bad thing have you want to blame it on the person who you do not because it is easier .
and when the good thing have you went he did that .
it wa i give it when when when mike mcdaniels first went to miami ?
and we would have a sale drop .
no it is the same .
they did not say my brother called the place .
it is he happened .
i think that for eagle and for the eagle in particular it is the first year he got here the office looked very still .
it started to and then halfway through the second halfway through the first season he publicly give up play calling to my man is now in indianapolis .
brian johnson not a brian .
he give up play call .
and then the following year the offense look completely different than anything weve seen out any other year .
that one year look completely different ?
and that wa the one year where we knew for a fact he wa not in charge of the place .
then last year when you go back to it we took the play call because stike stike and left .
last year they took the play call .
brian johnson wa a court .
hear me out .
hear me out .
what we are not going to what we are not going to do is we are going to look at this through regular eye and not be .
if there is a quote unquote offensive head coach and a they get an offensive coordinator who is not ha no experience .
ninety nine.nine of the time the head coach no matter who the fuck the offensive coordinator is is calling the place .
it happens everywhere .
if it is an advice person if it is a defensive guy and the defensive coordinator come in and he never been a defensive coordinator ever before the head coach is the one controlling the defense .
the guy is learning .
thats what happened with brian johnson .
and in fact the shit wa being said that damn we do not even know brian johnson is even good because we do not know what wa his and what wa not his .
we know that this offense that we saw last year looked very similar to the offense before stiking .
here took over my only rebuttal .
i am not tripping on what i live for the off here and i i am i watch these .
here the thing ?
when we watch football we all watch football ?
when somebody call play .
what are they doing ?
they are going to cheat and doing this .
you do not see that from nick sarian .
unless it is motherfucking. . no no no .
i am out. . i am not .
hear me out .
hear me out .
he not sitting there with the board .
let break that down .
prior to the game they go over the game plan .
nick siriani run not this year i am saying last year with brian johnson .
kelli moore ha experience he not gon na be a handson with kelli moore at least i would think .
he run through different scenario and tell brian johnson in these situation these are the play that i want you to choose from to what you call it .
each situation the head coach will let if the head coach is yo not run the ball the office court are now asked to run the ball .
if the what i am saying ?
he may not it is this .
this is what to your point this is what it is ?
it is your playing madden you go into the formation .
three play pop up on the screen .
that is the three play or madden suggests is your play ?
the offensive play to run .
therell be three play up on the board .
that is what madden is telling you .
these are the three play .
now obviously it is a little different .
you can scroll and shit that but that is what it is .
he ha three or four play .
these are the play that sirianne would want you to run in this second and four at this field position at this point in the game .
he may get to pick the play out of this small window but that window is created by the guy thats the head coach .
in this particular case is sirianne .
i hear you and i listen .
you say he creating a friend .
he the head coach .
pull up the week schedule .
can we talk about the same friend in dallas dave ?
what you want to talk about ?
dallas aint shit and the same friend .
we are the most hated team bro .
you couldnt get through this show without saying something .
because i wa talking about this scene .
he wa dallas baby with r.g .
thats the topic .
yo thats the thing .
he not the same friend in dallas every year .
that that that that that yeah .
get your shit on .
but that that that that .
no thats not a robbery ?
but the same way yall sat here and said if we help you we can be anybody .
i think we help you .
i do not think this year .
we got the most injury in the league and we still average the most point per game in the league .
we got twenty four point in detroit .
twenty eight point .
not after not after this game .
but twenty eight point per game is what we average .
this is without the the reigning player of the year .
this is out b8 .
it is without kiddo miss two game .
nobody fucking with u . i am that now ill tell you upfront .
if we if we would smash off wed help sam .
smash or laugh .
yall can talk about this shit .
i can not say that .
no this is see this see this .
see this this is tell him .
tell him i am not for nothing .
this is what he doe ?
remember two week ago when i told yall i did not i wasnt trying to talk about the eagle and san fran or whatever cause i knew san fran wa better than this .
and he wa pushing them button that day .
he saw me in fucking franklin .
all this shit .
and all this yo if we motherfucking same way we smashed yall last year nigga we smashed yall two car two year before .
everybody always wan na talk about everybody it is not our fault .
we put your quarterback out .
we hurt your quarterback .
you block him with a tight end .
we are fully healthy .
and two when we were both healthy you were happy what i am saying man .
when we were both into the question it is a simple question .
it is a simple when we played the game fully what happens .
here you go get healthy and play u this year and we can see what happens .
i do not i can not worry about next year i am in this year .
cool i do not think i do not think i do not think i do not think i do not see yall winning the championship .
i know i am only i am barking with you because you wan na talk that talk and i am here .
listen listen ima go to the homer because he said bet that they won the championship .
no thats not what he said .
thats not what he said .
i went fucker back had it the raw read you called me cut it out .
i said i am not scared of yall winning the championship .
i aint scared of yall winning the championship .
what the fuck is he saying ?
what is he saying ?
i said i said i am not worried about yall winning the championship .
talk your shit now .
how about this ?
talk your shit now .
because i do not how you i do not ill imagine bet nigga .
how much ?
bet bet bet it is the bet is this .
then here you go .
i am not the one that said if you said i do not say anything .
you would shoot loud .
i am not playing off the ground .
you jumping at my maid and i am not feeling it .
he not here .
he not here .
i am here to you .
if you said to me i do not see seven cent for winning the championship .
i am not giving yall that .
i wa saying you said bet it then .
but thats what you said .
he did not say bet it .
he did not turn his hand to that side .
thats what he said .
he did not do that .
he did not do that .
i will back my word .
ill be here better looking at yall .
i am saying that not knowing who the fuck gon na be on the field .
i told you see i wasnt going there but i told you from rip i felt this would be an off year for you guy .
you guy have played a lot of football .
it is christmas and christmas .
thats a big if .
i do not think he coming back home .
whats the point of making that ?
whats the point of making that ?
i do not think i do not think .
you said if we play if we play i do not care who on the field .
but i said in christmas time we bet yall .
tell me do you hear yourself ?
you are the and i said .
because who on the field make it different ?
you over here making something .
i am back better than what i do not want to call you out .
and you said she is healthy .
and i am i do not care who on the field .
cause yall healthy and we are not .
how are we healthy ?
dallas goddard not on the field .
we did not have a whole we did not have a left tackle .
we not we are cry and complaining about that shit .
i am not cry at all .
aint nobody tell aint nobody tell yall to put yall all yall egg in a basket up or running back to get hurt every year .
yall laughed it up wa doing that with u . and i said we gon na get them this year .
next year all of these different .
and then let see how here you go .
thats all he in prayer .
i am praying with me man .
i am praying praying with me .
i am placing the date check go get real .
pray with me .
yes it will be different .
but now thats what it is .
what the fuck is the difference ?
i am telling you cmc can be on the field or he can not we will bust that as this year .
if we help the if we help the if we play yall i do not care who on the field .
thats the risk i am willing to take .
cmc wa going to be on two year ago when we played .
hold on .
hold on hold on hold on .
why you going back to two year ago ?
you brought it up .
go back to the last time we played .
go back to that wa last year .
thats the last time we played for onezero .
thats the real thats the real .
thats the real .
i said about onezero .
it wasnt nothing for me to say if i doubted wed beat him every year .
yeah i am not hearing you .
let me talk with you .
what wa i supposed to say ?
cool. . can we do it ? .
you want to bet it .
bet your whats your bet ?
whats our bet ?
how much ?
how much ?
name your number .
i do not that .
fuck out of here .
he named a number .
he named a number .
you do not his number ?
he did name a number .
i need chris gon na write in this little notepad .
hold on whats the deal though ?
thats a hey bro .
you bet twenty at the niner ?
thats a bad bet for you .
not going to play all year .
they are not going ?
hold on .
i do not figure that .
he wanted to bet something other than you .
do not try to make the pay for it .
thats a stupid bet .
he wanted to bet something outside of what he wa shooting at .
thats what i am missing .
you wanted to make a new bet because you did not want to bet your original bet .
there wa no original bet .
i would have never bet you .
i never said that .
can we do can we do a week now prediction ?
thats what chris said .
did he say power ?
you want to get basketball ?
we out we out .
we big off basketball .
yeah he get hit .
dak prescott played basketball .
you want to talk basketball ?
can we talk about why you are manned ?
you are remixed on the sideline though .
thats the organization yall got running over there ?
thats the thats the thats the .
what do you think that wa a nip ?
thats the narrative i am going with .
they got a video of dalvin cook .
and he talking to the coach and he drinking .
it looked one of the .
it looked he went and got himself a miniature bottle of diggs boy and hand himself a shot before the game .
why we talking about freaking dalvin cook ?
thats your running back .
thats not even our thirst .
thats our thirst .
he got he started last night .
he started that .
he got the first carry bro .
we got the most touch though .
you switched it up .
he the first carry .
he start to start .
the first carry mean you started .
you want to stick to semantics .
we wasted ten minute worrying about dalvin cook .
who next ?
whats on the agenda ?
whats the funny story ?
that wa .
yall think it is .
i have an opinion .
texas at the jet .
who do the cowboy play ?
thats why i am going to .
texas at the jet .
texan at the jet .
listen thats the time i wa wrong about to .
i said air rogers is going to .
yall had them in top five too by the way .
yall wa one hundred percent wrong about that .
i am going to say this .
texan at the jet .
thats the best .
give me texas .
write it down .
you got to write it down .
you be paying attention .
texas at the jet .
when you first said it i said texas .
go to the next game .
go to the next game .
the cowboy at the falcon .
at falcon ?
at the falcon .
how can not lose two on the road ?
maybe this will be three in a row .
thats what it will be .
this will be three .
what week doe michael parson play football ?
bronco at the ravens. . bronco at the raven .
bronco at the raven .
. . bronco at the raven .
bronco is playing .
shout out to crabley .
we talk about that .
yeah how about that .
we can not say that .
miami at the bill .
whats next ?
saint at the panther .
let me get a little panther .
i want to go on bat .
the other boy .
yeah he still a starter .
he starting .
he a fucking spencer rattler still in quarterback ?
for saint .
yeah but it is still hurt .
but they got camaro .
but thats what the panther do not have .
johnson or thielen .
nothing to shit with saint .
i aint watching that shit .
nobody watching .
whats next ?
raider at the bengal .
i am going to take the raider .
you do not hype for them .
the raider are two and six .
yeah i think they are going to beat the bengal .
i think the raider about to treat max .
drive me to the detroit lion .
he not going nowhere .
ill be over the fucking .
if you go to detroit guaranteed .
thats all i wa trying to say .
the four and three charger are at the two and six brown .
you wait up. . he going to chief .
who did it ?
who chief ?
wa it the last game ?
charger and brown .
i am going to charge it .
charger and brown .
they went to in a row .
it is up .
i am letting that because i am letting .
when you come through and they say put it in your body and i say give it to your jack .
most epic most epic post game interview ever .
the six and two washington commander .
at the two and five new york .
what do you say chris ?
i remember the word .
he said he said he said listen he said he said there is a caucasian in detroit in detroit .
he say he say he say he say he say he say he say he say he say you better lose .
do not miss your chance to blow .
opportunity only come once in a lifetime .
he said yeah what is he saying ?
thats my man .
ill do what pretty .
he saying yeah hold on .
this this here is the battle of the bum .
we got the two .
they not their as .
who next ?
battle of the bum .
the two and six patriot are at the one and six titan .
titan titan titan one and six .
titan titan trying to get a shit .
we still that wa the end of the one oclock game .
now we go into four or five .
the four and three bear are at the four and four cardinal .
bear at cardinal .
bear at cardinal .
the man twenty nine who twenty nine ?
but i do not think it wa his fault though .
i think he did .
it wasnt his fault .
it wasnt his job to guard the boy in the back of the .
he wa playing the ball .
he wa playing the ball .
he wa playing song in the fan .
i thought he had it in the bag .
the two and six jax are at the almighty .
five and two eagle .
you want jax on the eagle ?
he is .
i did not even know .
that wa dummy pain .
whats next ?
six and one lion at six and two .
this is a hell of a game .
detroit is my team .
lion because i think what you are going to is going to play .
but you are a love not playing .
he not going to play .
he not going to enjoy it .
he not going to .
this is .
the three and four ram are at the forum for seahawks .
thats it. . wow .
seattle mexico .
i hope they .
i hope ram what robs team a . yeah .
we had the four and four colt sunday night gang .
at the five and two viking .
whats the cause be rich since you whats the cause of u rather ?
yo i told cat he wa not going he crossed and wa injured .
i am trying to say the bro wa not in the playbook at all this all season .
whats up wild ?
thats some sunday edition .
live reaction man .
it is always sunny in philadelphia when you are winning .
we had a great great great great great day today .
first of all happy sunday .
appreciate yall for pulling up and watching .
if you are not watching this on sunday whatever whenever you watch it we appreciate you .
and we are glad to see yall walking back .
if yall did not know this is a no box sport podcast brought to you by no box entertainment .
and i am one of your host and i go by the name of uncle doug .
and i am the original cp3 .
the original you better not forget man .
and this is episode eight and we happy to be feeling great man .
we do not know why .
we aint even ... listen we are going to get into it with the eagle .
we know what yall came in for .
the eagle held it down today in a major way .
and we got our first whenever in the city of cincinnati versus those bangle man .
clap it up for the eagle man .
give it up for them .
give it up for them .
and if you have long watching clap .
our bird are five and two now .
five and two now .
what we going to do now man ?
how the five and two sunday going for you over there man ?
man it wa definitely ... i wa definitely nervous in the beginning bro .
when i saw that tenthree score .
it wa seven up and then tenthree .
and it is .
whats happening here ?
and i got a little ... i felt a little better when we tied it up .
they tried to rob u . one and a half time .
they tried to rob u . they did try it .
they did try it it wasnt in 4k .
they tried it but ... that out the jail of hurt .
shout out to the people in the booth for looking out for u . because i did not know how they wa going to challenge that .
because they did not call .
they did not say it wa a touchdown .
a far a i understand the rule ... it looked it wa about to be another play run. . it is a far a i understand the rule it is only an under review if it is a touchdown a far a i thought .
i wa hey but it worked out for u . and we went in the ... in case yall did not know he wa talking about going in the halftime .
going in the halftime we wa down tenthree .
we had drove to the goal line .
we wa trying to punch it in .
it took u two try and it wa a ... it wa a touch push .
and we did not get in and they reviewed it and they see jail and hurt .
fort and gave enough effort to where we got to seven .
then we went in the halftime tenten .
we got a little bit of hit of ourselves at halftime but do you remember when it looked it wa about to go for two after we scored there ?
do you remember whats feeling when you seeing that ?
and what yall doing trying to go ... what they did .
i wasnt ... i wa perplexed .
i wa perplexed .
i wa definitely why are we trying ... whats the difference between one point ?
and then at the longer they took the hike i wa he trying to get through them all .
once you start doing a hard count we knew it .
but in the beginning i am what is we doing ?
in case yall did not know the score we talked about it wa tenten and a halftime but this is the way it ended up .
thirty sevenseventeen .
beat them by dubb in cincinnati for the first win of the man .
yall know tenten .
but when in the halftime first of all we did not score a point in the first quarter .
let address the elephant .
that stat can go on another week .
thats a weird stat .
and i do not know whats going on with that .
and i am not saying we wasnt rolling in the first quarter this week because we did score on our first drive this week .
the stat will not necessarily show you that .
but cincinnati when they came out they went down the field you said .
they drove every third down converging .
they wa getting it looked they were going to have the answer for our defense and all the philly fan the group text social medium not this again .
they were snapping .
they went down the field score seven .
but that drive took almost eleven minute .
and when we got the ball back we went on the long drive a . but we wound up getting three .
but we did score on the first possession even though it wasnt in the first quarter .
but we did start a little slow .
but it wa back and forth man .
they drove we drove .
they drove we drove .
this wa two team that shout out to the bangle because they are a good team .
they are a solid team .
but this wa a situation where it wa a dog fight .
we showed some perseverance throughout the game .
i think the first half i want to salute the defense because it looked it wa about to get bad man .
it looked it could have they could have scored three time at least fourteen the way they went down the field in first two drive .
but the defense made a few play man .
off top smith nolan smith you starting to hoop bro .
you starting to hoop .
i aint going to say about time .
this is second year .
he starting to do his thing .
he starting to get to the quarterback regularly .
i am about to start expecting that from him now .
he seemed he figuring it out .
josh i think youve been solid all year .
carter of course they wa double teaming him .
i watch him all game man .
they got to double him .
it is they do not got no choice too .
bryce huff had a few pressure but the defense played today man .
shout out to fifty three man .
that guy that guy solid bro .
that guy is solid .
i did not know about him .
i aint know about him .
i wa upset they did not let them white play .
i did not that they let him go that .
but looking at how i wa playing out with zach bond and dean .
yeah i wa going to say mccoby dean you got to give them prop too man .
especially we need honestly we need him to stay healthy because last season .
this season for him and he got hurt .
the problem is it we need him to stay healthy .
but he always been considered tom on the kobe ha always been considered a good prospect for u . it is that can he play a full season ?
and he starting to show that he definitely one of the guy that him and bond is definitely we got some good linebacker man .
yeah yeah they played today .
they played aggressive bond forced to turn over a crucial turnover .
i think it wa in either late third or early fourth. . we punched the ball out of an awareness play .
the defense played .
thats what we getting to now .
we getting around to saluting the defense .
cornerback corner thats a that wa a tough we said we said last week that that wa going to be a tough matchup .
jamar going against jamar chase and t higgins .
and yeah yo we held him to seventeen point man .
i only scored two touchdown .
that that all if our cornerback stunk we should have got that score should have been flipped .
it should have been worse .
there no reason it shouldnt have been worse .
and t higgins did not play today .
he had a little quiet injury .
he suffered friday and did not play .
but jamar chase wa out there .
boy wa out there and they got solid backup receiver and they got another quarterback .
you definitely expect them to be able to do thing more thing versus the eagle in the pas game .
and it doe show that our cornerback are here .
and we did have slag with elwood injury .
it looked a groan injury .
i think that wa the second quarter .
and he did not return .
he made a hell of a play i think in the third quarter .
it might have been the fourth quarter where he tipped the ball to put some cj dj to get a pick .
and that added to that momentum we had at that time .
but you said man sorry sorry coach you all but honestly you could debate if slay would have been able to on that route that particular route you had to have somebody fast to keep up with jamar chase even. . it is the biggest .
you already know i said what we one or two i wa already questioning slay .
it is yeah .
and it is in some way the injury wa we still need him .
we need all hand on deck .
yeah yeah yeah yeah healthy slate .
it wa a blessing in disguise kinda in the sense of i do not know if he would have been able to keep up with jamar chase to even deflect that in the cjs hand .
. . and to put it in perspective bradbury aint play all season .
he still more injured and reserved .
a lot of people forgot he wa on the team .
slade been playing he been playing but he went down he been bad on through injury the last couple of week .
they caught up with him a little bit .
but the young boy stepped up ringo came in made some play .
isaiah rogers wa in there .
we had cooper degene flying around .
we had the youngers out there and they were holding their own .
it did not look they were and cincinnati had the pas .
they were down .
it wasnt they came in there and they wa running the clock out on the other side .
we got some piece in that deep back man .
that we can stay healthy and keep it all together man .
i am feeling good about our defensive back move before especially because we got james bradbury coming back .
yo you got ta stop this james bradbury .
you bring it up james .
this quin yaw mitchell is playing .
you up here talking about james bradbury .
what we talking about ?
we talking about james bradbury .
you aint even talking about quin yaw today .
we got a quin yaw mitchell original cp3 counter on the show now .
it is getting to the point where do i need to ?
it is getting to the point where it is unless he get an interception it is he doe what he doe .
what he do ?
he he starting to be he doe what he doe .
this is good to hear .
it is already looking he doe what he doe man .
he definitely doe what he doe man .
and he did what he had to do today and the eagle did what they had to do today .
we salute in the defense all the way from the top to bottom .
real quick man if you watching this across any platform facebook youtube twitter instagram twitch wherever you at man .
how yall feeling man ?
born diva shout out to your cu .
appreciate you tuning in .
fly eagle fly for sure .
i hope everybody is feeling good tonight .
and we end the new sunday .
hope this is a great great week coming up .
and the defense definitely did their part of making sure we had a great week .
but the offense had a few thing they wanted to say too .
man how you feel about your boy jalen hurst today ?
what man ?
i think i may have to .
it is one of those thing where it is sometimes when you are in relationship and stuff that .
and you you have this expectation that these thing you want to happen .
and then you end you settled in the relationship .
and then you realize there come a point where you got to realize i got to see this person for who they are .
who they are .
who i am with .
he doesnt have the arm the arm talent maybe that you want to necessarily have in regard to arm strength .
arm strength if you want to have in your quarterback possibly .
i could see that .
and that play where he faked it here everybody on the left side .
and he faked it to saquon and ran in for the touchdown .
thats a cut .
and then he balled .
he doe that .
he you do not think i have arm strength ?
watch this .
did it on the ground .
did it through the air .
check you out man .
giving jalen praise at the same time dropping some real relationship advice for people out there thats watching .
yall may be in relationship .
you got to love the person you with .
you got to accept the person you with .
love their quality .
do not expect something else .
but you definitely got to hold them to the expectation of where they are doing what they should be doing and can be doing .
and now jalen is doing that .
and he balling today man .
over two hundred yard passing .
got to come over to hit .
mad fact let go ahead to the stats man .
and shout out to lauren over there on facebook checking u out .
she said jalen definitely did a great job today .
and we agree with that one hundred .
shout out to you for tuning in .
let go to the stats .
thats what we are saying .
he wa hooping .
he wa sixteen for twenty .
two hundred and thirty six yard one touchdown zero interception .
thats the big one there .
zero interception .
thats the big one there .
no fumble i do not think and no interception .
zero interception .
thats big .
not turning the ball over .
and jalen hurt he also come with his foot what he do on the ground .
he had ten for thirty seven and three touchdown .
and that wa not one .
but shout out to jalen hurt man .
he definitely hooped .
now i got to say man it is one of the best game i watched jalen hurt play .
this year for sure since he been to eagle i know the number wasnt sexy .
but they got the job done man .
shout out to hurt man .
this is one of the best game i say .
my biggest problem with you is turning the ball over .
you can not do that man .
can not turn the ball over at that rate that you wa .
and you cleaned that up man .
i do not think you turned the ball over .
last two game i think .
last two game .
at the brown he aint turned it over .
he aint turned the last three game he did not turn it over. ?
because remember we hit the tailgate .
and if yall did not see the tailgate i think that wa episode number six or episode number five .
we wa live at the eaglestales game .
eagle versus brown .
in case yall did not know this is the no box sport podcast .
both of you buy no box sport entertainment man .
this is our second season .
this episode eight for u . but we got a whole season on youtube .
go check out the archive the whole season one .
we do a lot of eagle a lot of six .
we mentioned the phillies and flyer sometime .
but we do what we could do when we could do it .
go check them episode out and catch up when we hang up off here today and tap in with u man .
if you out there talk to u man we are going to start bringing fan on .
we host and watch party .
we doing a lot of thing .
we trying to interact for the community with the community .
because the esmer sport are the best man when it is done in community .
when we get to share this win and this energy that man .
but besides hertz man what stood out to you the most about the eagle win in cincinnati ?
i am feeling good about .
continue to feel good about saquon .
first of all i do feel bad about will shipley .
i wanted him to get that touchdown .
the end of the game .
that would have been great .
he continued .
i it is on the one hand i do not want jaylin to keep doing the tush push because i want him to preserve his body .
because i thought saquon coming in would help maybe stop that .
but honestly speaking if the idea is we trying to preserve saquon for the playoff i guess i got to fall back and say we got to do we got to do .
but to saquon he continues to yo .
that guy a great guy .
a solid football player man .
solid football player .
and we not conserving him that .
thats twenty two carry there in the board form .
thats a lot of carry a lot of tackle a lot of not to mention the blocking and other thing that come with saquon .
saquon is definitely carrying it man .
we definitely got no complaint about that guy man .
and when you finish in the game we finished in the game with a lead .
and now we get to run the ball .
and we are handing it to him .
he already tired in our old line getting stronger .
and shout out to the old line .
let not go no further without paying homage to the old line man because .
we are not even at full strength .
nowhere near full strength .
we down two starter man .
and guy are stepping up .
shout out to them .
i did not look at this game today and feel we had a deficit at the old line .
we had a penalty here and there .
but overall you would expect u not to look we looked today .
shout out to the old line .
shout out to hertz .
shout out to barclay .
what i love about barclay man is that it is not only that he find the hole and we protect we give him the protection that he need to make those hole .
but the bull also punishes guy man .
he not giving no pass though .
ken of gangwell ha to find a hole and hit it .
and maybe duke a little bit of spin hell get through .
but it is he not knocking guy over ?
what ? .
but saquon it is he can make a five yard carry .
he did today make a five yard carry turn it to a ten yard run. . you got to tackle saquon .
he quite he quite eight hundred pound .
saquon not playing with people .
when it come to tackling him in that fourth quarter off .
yeah he in .
i aint even going to speak on that .
we got to get back healthy .
jalen hurt i love the way you playing man .
and and when miz wa on the show miz wa on episode seven .
yall make sure yall go check that one out .
miz talked about how he want to see jalen hurt more decisive when he going to run. . and today weve seen that .
i see him hit two reed today and take off .
and then thats what i want to see .
i know lamar jackson is eight year in almost nine .
but lamar jackson got to a point this year to where if you watched the raven play even if you watch that game of day he is doing whatever it take to win .
whether that mean i am going to rush for ninety or i am going to throw for three hundred .
it do not matter any given play .
he got the ability to do it .
if the play is there he going to if the play is to run he going to take that run .
he not going to hesitate .
but he also but also to your point he not always quick to run .
he doe i need to i need to throw the ball to get this long first down .
i am going to do that .
but if i got the run ill do it .
he definitely is .
he going through that evolution now .
i feel you start off doing what and he running a a quarterback .
then you get to the point that we are what you wa saying ?
i wa going to say my only concern when it come to u with the running with jalen is we got two number one receiver .
and from my understanding of history number one receiver they want the ball .
when you show those i am looking at those stats that you show .
aint a lot of reception .
between two number one receiver .
it is six and five thats hopefully they good with that .
hopefully whatever it take to win hopefully they good with that .
if that becomes the formula where we doing they only getting six to five reception .
i do not know how many target each of them have but let the six to five reception seems for two number one receivers. . hopefully everybody is about the team .
thats my only concern .
last year you heard a lot of stuff going on in regard to behind the scene where it is stuff there wa drama and stuff that .
and they are working together yada yada what i am saying ?
and thats definitely a concern .
definitely a concern depending on the dynamic of your team .
but i do think we got good dynamic with this team .
they home a you can tell .
we le likely to have a situation where one of them is hating on the other .
and it seemed they both eating .
they taking turn eating .
and i think at the end of the year they both gon na have a thousand yard again .
aj probably have a little bit more touchdown but smitty probably be there behind on .
they both got their check .
thats not a lot of ball to go around .
but i when we win that .
no i when we win that for sure for sure .
because we playing solid .
a win is a win but for u a fan but i do not know how we hope i hope that the guy if it is about hopefully they have the same mindset what i am saying ?
they all got paid .
that should also help too .
the fact that they all did .
they all got the check .
it is not a thing where they playing for contract and you yo i need more ball .
they got they got their money .
hopefully that also help what i am saying ?
but it is definitely if there ever a concern that could be a concern .
people not that team chemistry being not a good a we hope it hope it is. . the defense i went to that .
the bengal wa a good test .
i definitely thought that going into this game the bengal wa a good test .
it is knock them now they three and five because we made them three and five .
thank you .
but it is three and five for show .
they are three and five .
and it is you could skeptic the skeptic can say maybe they are not a good a we thought .
they were what i am saying ?
we are not doing that .
we are not doing that today .
we are not doing that at all man .
you said what stood out to you the most in this win is saquon barkley .
ill say what stood out me the most in this win is the character thats being developed by this team .
to see cincinnati come out score first first drive .
and then we go back with another long sustained drive and score three .
and then cincinnati come out of score three and then we score .
and then we keep building on that .
we are standing there in barrage battle through injury battle through flaky call here and there .
but at the end of the day shrink it together .
and at the end of the game he looked at team in a face and say yall not effing with u . and he closed the book on them for real .
and thats not a light team .
thats not an easy team to do that too .
they not shouted out with patrick mahomes .
they not shouted out with the best of them .
they not went to the super bowl already .
thats not an easy team to sit there and do that too .
this eagle team i do not know man .
i am feeling good about this win .
everybody feeling good about this win .
you think we are turning the corner ?
are we turning the corner a a football team ?
it is this the start of something great for the eagle ?
i aint ready to say that yet .
is this the start of a super bowl run for the eagle ?
i aint ready to say that yet .
i aint ready to say that yet .
we won three straight but they wa against the browns. . the giant .
and the bengal .
out of those three the bengal probably .
thats cool .
thats solid team .
we aint play no bum there .
what you mean ?
the bum we play .
the giant they aint that great .
they got daniel jones .
they not great .
they are nfc east team .
and they tough with anybody else .
they play it is that we send them around that .
the giant got a few win this season .
they they carry that a little bit .
they got the best the most sack in the league .
i am not going to act they a walk over team because we walked over .
the brown beat the raven today .
and we going to have a look around the league .
boom. . boom. . i aint saying we going but philly fan .
i do not know about you .
but i am the type of fan that want to win a championship every year .
and if we can not win a championship is it take the joy out of it for me .
but this one of them year where i am looking this this the door is still open on this year for championship .
but hey i aint saying it .
yeah me. . we turn in the corner now .
now what should we do ?
i think thats too early man .
too early .
i think it is too early .
you got to see who we play next week .
but i feel it is too early bro .
what you need to what you need to see to say we turn on the corner two more win in a row .
two more win .
thats it .
see some people see before others .
i am going to say this wa a my you medal win in our season .
and a long a we can build on this and not lay a egg next week and we see this team stacking it together because it looked the type of team that take the step and stack the box up and at the end they stepping at the top .
hold on .
you said it is they turn the corner .
it wa a big one .
yeah it wa a big one .
turn in a corner .
but i do not know about saying if i say they turn the corner .
you do not think this defense you do not think this defense is getting to a point where they understand the scheme and confident and running around and using their talent making play .
they are making play but we but but you also have to consider the level of talent they are playing against .
and this is the first one .
we got we need more good team were playing against where i can say that .
we i do not agree with you about the giant and the brown but i will not belabor it .
but thats my we disagree on it .
he think we need to slow down eagle fan .
he is of the elk that you need to chill .
you need to see some more .
this is a season eagle fan saying that i am a season eagle fan saying that listen we turn the listen when you walk around that corner before your body get there in our shoulder come around that corner now we aint all around it .
but we to .
who about round there ?
yeah super bowl around the corner .
all i am saying is eagle fan stay on stay on .
we ride this thing .
it is a beautiful thing .
but enough about our eagle .
and we are going to go take a little glance around the league because when we talk about turning the corner the rest of the league got this around that corner .
but we did talk about the brown already .
you mean they beat the raven .
we going to look around the league .
the brown did beat the raven .
i do not know if youve got a chance to see anything a far a that go .
but listen that game wa wild .
that wa that wa it went down to the last play man .
incredible play .
hell mary hell mary play .
if he got the ball in the last play thats a scary sight .
but cleveland survived .
james winston stephen started for the first time for his homey to sean watson and got the win .
man they put up some bucket .
i played against i played .
i had the raven defense and fantasy and it aint go too for me .
but i am shot out to the shot .
i wa shocked by that .
he he pulled up twenty nine point .
thats impressive .
twenty nine .
it wa twenty nine to four .
james winstons pas for three thirty four three tetties .
yeah he went twenty seven for forty one .
he wa out there hooping man .
let keep looking around the league .
though what else happened today ?
detroit man they foot the .
fifty two with the team .
do against the titan .
yeah they did with the team doing against the titan .
detroit is the most .
if i had to pick the best team in the nfc now on some non bias stuff i would have to say detroit is the best team in the nfc .
they have shown it the most consistently .
the firepower is there at elite firepower .
and they got some defense to back it up .
they is missing a hut to say he went down with the injury .
but they looking good .
the bill beat the seahawks thirty one ten .
josh island on josh island thing .
they are super bowl contender for sure .
keep your eye on that .
hold on man .
look at all that .
let talk about the big game that happened at the end of the day .
come on man .
thats out of the vision .
thats the big game .
that man .
the bear washington commander versus chicago bear man .
and that wa it wa a it wa a thriller .
i do not know if you are seeing it or not .
but how did it end ?
what wa the last play of that game ?
he threw up daniel threw up a hell mary pas .
the defender tipped it to believe noah brown .
and he paid attention and caught that john in the end zone game over .
that a lot of time those hell mary pass man .
and it doesnt he always the guy dropped it for every reason .
it come to me whether it is the thing or he caught the ball and they won the game off that job .
but i got to say that wa the perfect tip .
but this is the case yall do not know the the washington one eighteen to fifteen .
it wa a pretty low scoring game .
it came down to the end .
chicago had drove down and scored a touchdown with fifty second left .
and it looked they wa about to win in washington and washington somehow getting to the position .
throw a hell mary and win the game on the last play of the game .
walk off touchdown .
they look crazy .
if you aint see it yet go check it out .
it is definitely worth going to go watch the highlight man .
and now the washington command is a six and two and leading the division .
i think we got to match with them in two week .
it is going to be a battle man .
they a tough team down there to get magic at the last second now .
they are going to be something to deal with man .
but we aint got to deal with them now .
but that game wa something that the cowgirl i think they playing now .
they playing a 49ers and the score look it is seventy three to cowgirl winning this early second quarter .
well see what happened in that game man .
and thats nasty .
hey man whoever played the cowboy i am sorry it is always going to be against the cowboy .
it is always going to be whoever i am always rooting for the team against the cowboy .
but i guess i can root for a draw .
ill go with that .
we can go with that .
i guess ill go with that .
but next week man we got to turn the page .
we celebrate the night but we do not stay there for too long man .
we got business to handle .
the next opponent i think is the jagwell jacksonville jaguar man .
jacksonville jaguar they coming to philly dougie p trevor lawrence .
who else they got ?
brian thomas junior travis etn tank bigsby .
they got some piece .
they can put up a good game .
they are that type of team that if you do not prepare properly ?
and you think they sweet you will end up in a dog fight that you do not need to be it .
let hope this team thats when i say we got to build those block up .
the next block will be coming in next week and handling them how we supposed to .
not having it look crazy it is shaky again .
next week man let preview the game a little bit .
we got the eagle .
we might we might be missing slay not sure .
we had some encouragement by the rookie db .
we should be all .
otherwise i do not know the status on my lot of .
and i do not think he going to be back .
the boy beacon .
yeah god it wa out with the hand me .
i do not know whats going on there .
this is after the game .
we do not got the health report .
but monitor that .
but even with that in mind man how you feeling about that game versus jacksonville ?
jack it is an expected win .
they say what they say those those loss are scheduled .
that should be a schedule one for u . it shouldnt be twenty to sixteen .
again but i am not going to jinx them i did against the brown .
i am going to be quiet on the score .
but it should be a win it is yeah we should .
and i am definitely going to pick a win too .
i pick it a win a a win before the season .
although for transparency i did pick u to lose today because i knew we never won in cincinnati and i now watch some weird game in cincinnati and this trauma behind this cincinnati the eagle in cincinnati .
and today seeing the win felt real good because i never seen that before .
this is the first win .
now it make sense in the history .
when i seen that on the schedule i wa no it is it is not going down .
but thats why you thats why you are excited about all the time in the corner .
could you try and make up for the fact that it might be it .
it might be it .
that might be it .
i aint going to let the therapist might say the same thing .
if she heard me say thats what that could have been .
but we still .
even if you do not see our shoulder we you hear u . you hear that the eagle come around the corner .
but no i feel we should win too man .
i feel we should beat them .
i do not feel it should be close .
i am not going to say we should cook them by a certain amount but i feel we should have the game in hand in the fourth quarter .
well ship .
we should finally go ahead and get the kid touchdown at the end of the game .
and we five and two after seven after eight week of the nfl season .
and this is what i had a at five and two .
it happened very different than i said it would happen .
that is true .
but this is what i had to say .
i had u losing to green bay and i had u losing the cincinnati far .
the team .
but we are what i thought we would be .
it is the part of the season where i thought we can hit a shrine and let the league know we serious and get our rhythm going to see can we start to dominate team a we get into our identity which nick sariani said is physical .
physical identity .
but shout out to the philadelphia eagle man on getting that win today man .
we are wrapping up the eagle talk but today wa a good day for many of reason .
many of reason man .
we see multiple way today .
and then a certain sport we seen the first one .
it wa a day of first man .
it wa the eagle first ever win in cincinnati. . and it wa the 76ers first win of the nba season in the overtime thriller to the indiana pacer man .
yeah we got to give it up for the six to why do not yall give it up for the six yall .
you want to chat ?
throw some flame and something in there for the six .
pee jean we playing without mb .
you aint see the real 76ers thus far this year .
it is hard to get a real assessment on them .
but watching them today in these last two game man i got to give a salute to service because they fighting .
be in they beat the indiana pacer today in overtime one eighteen to one fourteen .
maxi had forty two point .
the next leader were forty five forty five my fault maxi .
ill never forget the three .
ubrey who ?
martin who martin ha seventeen .
ubrey had fourteen .
this wa a team effort .
may eric gordon have fifteen came in gave u some crucial offense man .
can you martin had eight mccain got seventeen minute today which i loved seeing .
i love seeing the maker .
thats letting me know we closer to the player coach getting le minute .
come on man .
come on man .
what color is the color is still solid for u . stop it .
i want to see mccain playing reggie .
reggie jackson did not play at all .
i think nickners need to fix that .
i do not know whats going on .
i know what need to happen .
but everybody played man .
we got the win .
kishaw did not know we lost to the milwaukee buck open the night .
not open the night win that they had to open the night .
they got u . it wa too much game .
it wa too much .
you are honest when it mattered .
we had nothing to match it .
but then we went into ronto and we lost .
they handled u down there .
defensively the left bothered u . they were they were sharper than this .
and maxi wasnt on he been shooting a lot but not at a efficiency rate .
and they got u . today we wa going to indiana who wa a good team a team that went to the eastern conference .
find those last year team that suspected to do thing a team thats healthy .
we were imposing looking at the sixth schedule without him being in pg .
there probably one that you say we will lose .
but going to indiana and we get the win in indiana .
and we get on the board .
we wanted to a lot of game left .
how many nba game is it ?
eighty two last touch .
eighty two .
god eighty two eighty two .
yeah i stepped it up though man .
maxi maxi doing what he got to do now .
you got to he got to be the five .
you got to be the leader .
he do not have to score forty five every night but he definitely got forty five .
he can not be doing twenty point .
he got to be twenty five and up .
twenty five and up you say ?
definitely got to average twenty five and up now while we do not have the two guy in at least twenty five at least twenty five. . maxi i think maxi is definitely averaging twenty five .
he taken a lot of shot to get to that twenty five .
but he got twenty five today .
he got to the forty five .
maxi you being aggressive earlier in the season .
thats what we need you to do .
the roleplayers looking good man .
i how martin looked .
he he had a great game today although he almost made a mistake that cause at the end but it did not cost u . oobre still squished army knife whatever you need. . kenyan martin jr. and elevated minute .
i the way he look .
he athletic smart basketball player .
he playing andre german doing his thing .
yeah seventeen board thirty seven minute .
that is major .
and he say he the greatest rebounder of all time .
thats what he is telling people .
seventeen rebound you backing it up .
you can not have anything now with you the greatest rebound of all time .
you got at least twelve .
but shout out to the sixer man .
you give your way to early assessment of how they look .
and even though we a little fracture now we looking we are without george and it be we look we solid .
if we got those guy we do not have those guy .
we are we are probably a ninth seeded team if that .
and i am sorry about maxi but maxi not that guy yet .
he not .
he not that guy yet to carry a team to top five in the conference. . but but when those guy come back i am definitely encouraged that yo we look a solid team .
we look a solid team .
but we got to have those two guy back .
we got to have those guy back .
but i will say my early assessment is the nba is in trouble because what he said without without pg without him being i do not think he his ninth place .
i think he carried it there maybe six seven .
now you got to realize we looking this because we we wa preparing to go without him be .
but the pg injury happened last week .
weve been playing with pg .
weve been setting up the offense with pg .
not there now .
it is maxi and them .
they trying to figure this whole thing out on the fly and weigh the buck .
we should have people saying we should have been toronto .
toronto might be a tough team around that six to ten area fighting .
they got playmaker .
they got a length .
they compete and we be the playoff team .
maxi aint necessarily look good this season a far a efficiency condition in a good but he he a little bit off and more of them should not start falling today .
but but i think if we had to keep building with this team we would get the point to where we would be toronto .
not saying we will be cooking them but we will be a solid team somewhere around six seven .
but even saying that i do not want to even think of a world of where we would have to do that because we got two star .
we are about to insert back in .
my thing is that we could be a six seven caliber type team that can go at a number one team without two all star and one generation of talent .
also future hall of famers .
when we put them two back in we are going to have to figure it out .
but i might start looking how the eagle look where we play our game .
is not much anybody going to be able to do .
and then thats what i am seeing with the sixer team .
i am not saying they turn in the corner because we did not even see it yet .
but it is about the ashley .
they walking down the block .
they walking down the block .
i am about to ask you .
i say you feel they turn .
here. . there .
they here .
we are going to be all man .
yeah we need those guy back .
we definitely need those guy .
we are not without those two guy .
i am not sure i am with you on the faith walk .
i do not even want to think of our team without those guy at all .
thats fair .
pistions down here .
i am at the at the whats we call the well fargo center now .
i do not know how long it is going to be the well fargo center .
they talking about some other thing .
some aint the secret moving and moving the stadium .
but we down there we wanted to play the detroit piston .
they own three .
but k. cunningham is hoping now .
i feel we should be able to get the two and two versus them .
i do not know how you feel .
i do not think we have until we get our two guy back .
far the three game that weve shown i do not feel overly confident about anybody .
there nobody that we can say we should win that game .
no it is going to be a good game to probably .
it might be a close game .
it is the piston and they supposedly still stink .
we probably gon na be close for u . philly .
you are we philly .
one thousand and thirty .
id be about one thousand and thirty .
one thousand and thirty twenty four .
i thought of something .
philly this is three day from now .
whats that ?
that wednesday .
the wednesday .
and b might be back that game .
they say and b could play at .
they say he might sit the first three game .
this wa planned .
they say hell be reevaluated .
he can possibly be in the lineup .
he not recovering from an injury .
he gearing up properly .
they do not want him to go from .
they do not want him to .
you got an old car and you build you trying to speak somewhere you can not go zero to twenty .
thats why somebody pulled up one of you at next to the light in the old car .
you look straight .
you do not even look at him .
when your car got that giddy up you looking over whats up ?
it doe and b he that type of car that is vintage can do whatever any car can do .
but we got to ramp him up .
we can not let him go .
and i am surprised that nba is hating on it hard because he sitting back .
the bag are not playing early .
i get off fire situation man .
i guess the art .
thats the age .
i will not say age but thats the argument that people have in regard to you .
it is i get that aspect .
when you go to see the temptation back in the day or any group it is you want to see the 10th .
you aint want to see a bunch of fake people want to see david weffin .
you aint got to try to see .
i come to see you on this drumming .
i am saying it is come on now .
you want to see the star .
that aspect i will not go against at all .
thats drawn .
i do not care about that though .
it is called gambling and sport and entertainment .
anything can happen .
anything can happen from game to game .
you spend that money even if they are not playing .
you go down to the stadium .
you have a good time .
you get in the mix and you enjoy it because you paid your money .
whoever regardless of who on the floor .
but i think thats their issue .
i think thats their issue in regard to why they do it because they try to at least give the front at least give the perpetration that we are trying to do what we write whats for the fan and stuff that .
i am thats why they do these whole investigation and stuff that .
i do not think they should have came out and said it i do not .
i do not know why and be .
i am not going to play back to back .
why are you saying that and be i probably never again in my career .
he get to the point where he do not care no more .
i do not know about your impression but you are a funny guy .
you got a better impression than me .
you got to trust it .
no would you write it ?
you write it is it is ill allow .
no you write .
they should they should have did what quiet them always .
they he can not play tonight for whatever reason make up an injury .
do not write it .
i say all that to say and be might be back wednesday night and even if he not back with the team i am projecting to beat them if the team with him be the team without him be .
and to be clear somebody coming back to the city that day he coming for blood .
tobias harris is making his return to philadelphia .
yeah all that tobias can not do this .
tobias corley tobias is on tobias fault .
guess what ?
tobias is back in the city in the starting line up ready to give u twenty five .
and i can not wait to watch that game personally because i know a a competitor a an athlete in that situation tobias harris is sleeping twelve hour and eighty four hitting all his routine .
he going to get one of the massage downtown and he go he go hit his shorty used to deal with a filly up they can take care of me .
take care of me baby .
i am back in town tonight .
i and when he come when the light come on at seven oclock i am watching that game start to finish man .
you are going are you going to clap for him ?
i am glad you think better not boot tobias dog .
they better not boot tobias dog .
do not thatll be thatll be corny because because i went through the case of tobias .
you go check the youtube channel .
i sent the proper salute when he left because i thought he wa a great role player thats whatever he had to do .
whats the old phrase ?
only a good a your last game .
what wa his last game ?
how many point you have in that last game ?
did he have any point in that last game ?
i am sure he ha some point in the last game .
i do not know about that .
i am sure he had a point in the last game .
but but but do not make me go into tobias harris case now .
this is not a bias .
zero point in a playoff game .
should you get booed or not ?
thats my point .
but we aint going .
i am one of the you want to give him a hand clap .
zero point in a playoff game .
you want to give me a hand clap ? .
you aint going to run to it .
i do not believe all the six of spanish is going to fight .
but i do because his last game .
i am finding it now because we gave him .
he did nothing .
i am finding it because you you went there .
this wa the evil podcast to buy for the piston .
he had no point .
you have a man up .
he had four rebound .
he had four rebound three assist and no point .
how many point ?
but listen he wa over to the nigga and shoot the ball because it wa being jacked .
thats the game .
buddy hill came in and put up ten shot .
he had twenty .
the third option .
obviously not that game .
guess who else had no point that game ?
guess who else had no point that game ?
is your player coach ?
is he still whatever man ?
he still on our team trying to help u . tobias said do any shit ?
let move on to bias .
i am never going to root against my team .
but turn up when you come to the city to buy it .
if you come around here and do not shoot i know i aint even got a couple to buy .
i am clipping this .
you better come and drop twenty five on .
you better see u. bray across and say food yall want to this nigga to shoot over me ?
he wa the u. bray .
he got to not let him do it .
he got to not let him do it .
do not let nobody come take your food .
but i do want to see tobias harris who wednesday tune in man .
that should be a fun one to watch .
we got a lot of fun six content coming up .
we are going to be here through all of it .
we promise we are not leaving you .
we with you forever and ever .
if i could do it without getting a copyright i would play ice cube on out .
they wa waking up in the morning .
got to thank god .
jalen hurks throwing touchdown .
i know thats the end of our show .
thats what happened when you .
thats what happened when you feeling great .
but at the end of the day this wa episode number eight .
and if you did not know this is the no box sport podcast brought to you by no box entertainment .
and i am your host uncle doug .
and i am the original cp3 .
the original you better not forget it man .
and if yall did not make sure yall go comment share subscribe tap in with u man .
tap in with u . why are you not tapped in with u ?
we got a lot of content .
go check it out .
but in the meantime the only thing i want yall to do is enjoy the rest of yall sunday night and attack monday with the same ferocious energy that our eagle attack them .
cincinnati bangle with .
and until next time we gon na holler at yall .
throw a dollar at yall .
we gon na get your one eagle champ before we get out of here because it is only .
you ready on three ?
one two three .
now that probably wasnt sick .
this is live but it do not even matter .
we out .
