why would they do that ?
we are closing the omega portal and until next time keep it absolutely weird weird science is the revolution
hello and welcome to crowdscience from the bbc world service .
i am anand jagatia and a you can hear we are currently surrounded by livestock .
i want to see if you can work out how many of each animal there are .
to give you some help here the farmer .
i only keep sheep goat and horse .
in fact at the moment they are all sheep bar three all goat bar four and all horse bar five .
i have to admit thats a tricky one .
and i also have to admit that this is not a show about farming it is a show about math and number .
now i did spring that on you in case you missed it here the farmer question one more time .
fine ill repeat it then .
get a pencil to write it down if it help .
at the moment my animal are all sheep except three all goat except four and all horse except five .
how many of each do i have ?
ill reveal the solution at the end of the show .
but how did you find that ?
did you manage to get to the answer already ?
doe working with number fill you with dread ?
or doe it come easily to you ?
it definitely doesnt come easily to our listener israel from papua new guinea who got in touch with this week question .
my question to crowd science is why am i bad in math and why are others better than me in math ?
ive been bad in math since the third grade or something .
do you have a memory of a time maybe when you were in third grade of how you found math hard or in what way you struggled with math ?
yeah i can remember this one time .
the teacher taught u long division throughout the week and at the end of the week she gave a test .
most people did better in the test .
i asked my friend how come you got better at math in long division and i did not .
and he said you are naturally slow in math .
yeah it is interesting is not it because for some people even if they study hard and they work hard there something about math that they find difficult .
wa that your experience ?
i tried studying hard memorizing the multiplication time table and doing more activity doing the same activity that the other people who were good in math did but still i did not get a good a they were .
yeah i hated that subject towards the end .
thanks israel for getting in touch .
why are some people better with number than others ?
math is one of those subject that tends to divide the crowd and also it turn out crowd science listener .
we reached out and asked you to tell u about your relationship with mathematics .
some of you felt that you were bad at math .
everything looked complicated and even question i wa able to solve before now looked some of you excelled .
some of you noticed clear difference between your classmate .
while some of you loved it at school .
i think this mysterious puzzle that i can help everyone to solve .
mathematics ha always evolved mixed emotion within me .
i see mathematics a a language .
i think we are traumatizing our child for no good reason .
until i had a new teacher .
i do not know how to calculate them .
and i am now a math teacher .
always hated math .
pleased to see you for you .
thanks to everyone who got in touch with u . clearly listener israel is not alone in thinking about this stuff .
and one thing he mentioned wa that his classmate told him he wa naturally slow at math .
but what doe that mean ?
and is it true that some people can be naturally good or bad at math ?
it is a very good question .
and often when people talk about naturally being good or bad naturally at something they also refer to some concept of being born with something .
this is professor yulia kovas from goldsmith university of london .
shes a geneticist and a psychologist who study why people have different mathematical ability .
i often hear very deterministic view about genetics that say i am bad at math because everyone in my family is bad at math it is genetics and nothing can be done about it .
similarly there are example of for example mathematical talent running in family .
people often think that that mean it is not malleable in any way .
but all of these assumption are wrong because mathematical talent or disability may run in family for both genetic and environmental reason .
sure. . i guess your job a someone who researching this is to try and untangle these factor .
how would you go about studying that and what some of the work that youve done in that space ?
ive worked for many year on a very large scale twin study in the uk which ha about tenzero pair of twin consistently followed from birth .
and in this study we compare identical and nonidentical twin .
and one more thing is that all twin live in the same family .
here you have a perfect control for environmental factor .
they all live together .
they have the same family the same parent same socioeconomic status .
a lot of factor equalized .
but identical twin they are more similar than nonidentical twin on every psychological characteristic we studied .
they are more similar in mathematical ability .
and that suggests that home environment do not explain all the variability .
it seems that gene do contribute .
. . because the identical twin and the nonidentical twin have both pretty much had a similar a life a it is possible to live .
but the identical twin who are exactly the same genetically are more similar .
you can say there got to be something going on here with the gene .
this is a usual conclusion from twin study .
and the evidence is quite solid. . i guess we can say that there good evidence that there is some genetic or inherited component to whether you are good or bad at math .
but how much of a big deal is that ?
if we look at the estimate it seems that in secondary school and in adulthood the heritability genetic component of mathematical learning and ability is about fifty to sixty .
it is an interesting number .
it reinforces this idea that gene and environment are both important and to a similar extent in a way .
we know now that gene and environment always coact .
they interactively affect our characteristic .
but i think what is very important to mention that when we talk about environment we do not mean something very specific teacher or parent or school or something that there are thousand of factor that can be in play .
and of particular importance are environment that are not systematic that are individual specific maybe random .
maybe something you heard on the radio may change the whole path of your interest or motivation .
it is unpredictable and random .
the word environment we are using it in quite a scientific sense there but maybe it would be more accurate to describe it a everything your body ha ever experienced .
and then that would give people a sense of how broad it can be .
and you say something can send you on a path that you would never be able to trace and never be able to know .
but thats what life is i guess .
and there is a concept for this recently discussed in the literature .
it is called exposome .
thing you are exposed to throughout your life. . you have your genome and your expo zone a . yeah .
and your collection of everything .
but even these genome and exposome are not unrelated because in many way your genetic propensity may lead you towards particular exposure .
and even if both of u hear the same radio program we can extract completely different thing from it .
i find ulis research surprising .
our gene do seem to play a significant role in how good we are at math .
but thats not to say that there a single math gene .
and it is also not the whole picture .
perhaps this episode of crowd science will have a bearing on your future mathematical ability although a ever more research is needed .
but if listener israel you think that you are bad at math perhaps you are studying it currently at school this doesnt help you very much .
you can not control your gene and it is not always easy to change your environment .
do we a individual have any control over how good we are with number ?
is it possible to change your mathematical fate ?
thank you much for asking that question because we need to set the record straight here .
eero xenodudervu is a researcher at loughborough university in the uk in the department of mathematics education .
everybody i feel need to know that we can all improve in mathematics .
we might not all become expert mathematician but we can all develop the numeracy in mathematical skill that can help u thrive and improve our quality of life .
we mustnt forget that there also a lot of evidence both from u but from many other colleague around the world showing how our thought our belief our attitude our emotion around mathematics includes mathematics anxiety influence our math learning journey and our performance .
it is important for people who want to improve their math skill to also believe that they can .
it need time and effort anything in life ?
i wanted to pick up on something you mentioned there around emotion and how you feel about math and belief .
this is something that our listener israel mentioned .
when he wa doing math at school he struggled with it initially and he did badly on a test and then he started to hate the subject .
what do we know about the thing that can affect them or make their journey even more difficult or worse ?
yeah feeling and emotion and belief and attitude play a very important role .
if at any point for example you fall behind for a bit or you are exposed to also gender stereotype or you have negative experience your listener regarding math it can be at home or at school you might start developing anxious thought and feeling around math .
thats started vicious circle .
anxiety in math lead to avoidance of math which also then lead to poor performance which then increase math anxiety even further .
what math anxiety doe is that it overload our working memory .
working memory is the mental space where our thinking take place .
it is where information is stored and processed for a very brief amount of time and it is very very limited .
what happens with anxiety is that these negative anxious thought take up a lot of this precious space in our working memory and there very little left for you to use to solve the problem at hand .
weve recently conducted a study at loughborough with my team where we looked at this link between working memory and math anxiety in childrens mental arithmetic .
these were child nine to ten year of age and they did a two digit mental arithmetic task on it own but also in a condition where we interfered with their working memory .
that is they heard word before the arithmetic problem and then they had to recall these word verbally they had to retain them while doing the arithmetic task .
and what we found is that of course the working memory load impaired impacted childrens performance but we found that this wa particularly crucial for highly math anxious child .
for them they were not doing two task they were doing three task .
it amplified the effect for high math anxious child .
what i am curious about is what is it about math thats different from history that it mean because people do not talk about having history anxiety .
what is it about math that it mean it ha this power over people ?
probably it is the fact that it entail many skill that are intertwined ?
it is math is complex .
i also view math learning a building a mental brick wall .
you need to set all these brick and set those solid foundation .
you can not skip brick in the mathematics domain .
for example in history perhaps you do not know very one particular era and thats fine but in mathematics you can not do that .
you need to build those solid foundation to later on be able to advance to more higher order mathematics .
is there practical advice that you can offer to people who might struggle with math or feel badly about it and want to change their relationship with it ?
i want your listener to know it is never too late to learn math and improve your numeracy skill .
you have to believe that you can do it .
it take time and effort but there are many resource online that can help you achieve that goal .
be kind to yourself .
you want to try to change your mindset .
you have to believe that you can do this and slowly start strengthening your numerical and mathematical skill .
you are listening to crowdscience from the bbc world service where we are answering a question from listener israel who want to know why he bad at math .
far weve heard that part of the answer is in our gene but that doesnt mean your success in math is set from birth .
a important are all the thing out there in the world that shape u over the course of our life .
and no matter how much you might struggle all of u can improve our skill with number .
while it is helpful to know that we can get better at math if we believe that we can the attitude can only take you far .
a child the way that we are taught math in school is surely an important part of the puzzle and that depends on where you are in the world .
i went back to professor yulia kovas to ask if there are any country where math education is particularly strong .
and she told me about some interesting finding from the early 2000s .
the top of the international ranking were chinese student some other country east asian country and finland .
and finland ha been branded a a european paradox because it is there amongst these other east asian country .
yulia is talking about something called the pisa survey which among other thing test basic math skill in fifteen year old from various country .
ranking this are not perfect and there are limit to what they can tell u . because you do on a standardized test doesnt necessarily mean that your education system is better .
but in two thousand and three finland surprised a lot of people by getting remarkably good result .
is there anything we can learn from country that tend to perform ?
i called up two education expert to find out .
i am currently a assistant professor at jiangxi naman university in china .
i work a a professor of practice at the university of turku in finland .
one thing that both of these country have in common is that they focus on the basic when it come to math .
the main philosophy in the finnish education system used to be to guarantee the basic skill for all .
four basic which is about the basic knowledge basic skill basic math experience and basic mathematical thinking .
and another is that teacher are supported and respected .
all the teacher in finland get five year academic training .
and because of the respect what the teacher have it is a profession what the youngster want to have .
we have ten time more applicant than we have study position .
yeah teacher are usually respected regarded .
and education is also regarded .
we have very highly qualified teacher who also at the work have a lot of freedom to do their work the way they want to do .
they will only need to teach one to two lesson a day .
and the rest of the time they will be able to talk to their peer to discus and plan lesson together and give each other advice on how to improve that specific lesson .
but there are also difference including how the best and the worst student do in each country .
if you look at the variability within country let say in china doe everybody do ?
no there is a huge variability in every other country .
and the difference between worst performing and best performing child translates into ten year of schooling .
it is a if one never went to school and one ha already completed ten year of education which demonstrates the complexity .
and if you look at the finnish distribution what they are showing is that at the top finnish child perform very similarly to top performer in other country .
but at the bottom there are fewer child who are doing badly .
and in that sense on average they are doing better .
if they are putting effort into helping struggling child not to do badly then thats already a huge thing .
whether top performer are now more brilliant at math time will show probably not .
you could say that finland ha some of the best worst math student .
how do they do it ?
i asked finnish education expert pekka .
the high level of investment to special support for learning .
every school ha special teacher who do not have their own classroom but they are teaching those kid who are falling behind in education .
and they are trying to guarantee that everyone would learn the basic in mathematics .
i should point out that in recent year finland ha dropped down the ranking to be more in line with other european nation although it is still number thirteen out of eighty one country tested .
it is unlikely that there a secret formula for brilliant math education .
instead it is more about thing persevering with the foundation and making sure that teacher can do their job properly .
no surprise there .
it is also hard to compare different teaching system given cultural and societal difference between country .
there this nice saying about when you are trying to explain a very complex systemic phenomenon .
there an answer which is simple need and wrong .
yeah exactly .
we human tend to answer that are simple and neat are not they ?
there never an answer which is one factor affecting thing .
far weve looked at gene emotion education and environment but there one last thing we have to explore in some people that struggle with math .
to understand what that is we have to look at how we sense quantity and we might get some clue from culture that do not have word for number .
culture which are nonnumerate where the language contain no counting word .
brian butterworth is a professor at university college london who studied counting in indigenous community in australia .
they have marker on some of their noun and verb about whether it is all or some or few .
they do not have word or marker for specific number one two three or four .
and i guess they do not need them ?
they get on fine without them ?
they get on fine without them .
they get on fine without them .
for example when they are trading which they do often across long distance it is facetoface trading .
ill give you this if you give me that .
they are on the whole huntergatherers they do not have flock to tend .
and when they gather they gather whats there and take it back to their camp .
you looked at a specific community who have one of these language .
whereabouts in australia do they live ?
we looked at two different community .
one in the central desert a few hundred kilometre from alice spring and another on an island off the north coast of australia .
we could test two separate community to see what monolingual child in those community could do with number .
now it is quite difficult because you can not ask them how many nut are there on a tray .
you can not ask them because they are not the worst to ask them that question .
you can not ask them but you can do this test which is you put out a number of nut on your tray and you say make your tray the same a my tray .
we can also test thing addition .
i can put let say four nut on my tray cover them up and then in full view of the child put let say another three nut under the cover and say now make your tray my tray .
and if theyve done the addition in their head theyll put out seven nut on their tray and they can do this .
with these kid is it a visual thing ?
or doe it only work if they can see you putting the nut out or can it go to more abstract level than that ?
number are abstract .
in order for them to have number you have to test whether they have an abstract sense of number .
they clearly have the concept they could do it .
brians work show that human have a builtin sense for number .
even child that have never been taught to count because they do not have the language for it have this sense .
but the important thing for israel question is that in some people this sense doesnt seem to work very .
yes some people have very bad numerical sense and it is very easy to test because the innate mechanism is designed to extract numerical information from the environment .
you can test individual number sense by asking them to do a task say how many dot there are on the screen and you can look at how accurate they are at that and how quick they are at that .
you could create a measure of their efficiency in extracting numerical information from the environment .
and individual who are not very good at this tend to have a great deal of trouble learning ordinary arithmetic thing that you and i can do rather easily .
they find extremely difficult .
and we call these people discalculics and we explain to them and they find helpful that the reason they can not learn basic arithmetic is not because they are stupid and not because their teacher are very bad .
it is because their innate mechanism doesnt work very .
these are all reason why you are bad at arithmetic .
and how common is it ?
i am sure most people have heard of dyslexia but maybe dyscalculia is le known about .
yeah how prevalent is this condition ?
we think it is about a prevalent a dyslexia properly diagnosed .
it is about five .
people with dyscalculia tend to struggle even with simple arithmetic task 5x8 or 6x16 .
but brian and his team have developed something that might help .
and weve run test on this game .
can we have a look at this game ?
go to the first level breaking and breaking one .
there a little introduction .
on the screen there are line of bead in group of up to ten .
each amount ha a different colour and set can be combined .
or you can split them .
i cut this four into two set of two .
the idea is to build or break these set of bead to produce a target amount .
and this help child understand that five bead for example contains a set of two and a three .
and to get them to represent numerical information in term of set .
you get on to the next level .
where you are learning to associate these bead with the digit .
yes you are getting the hang of it now .
and at the end this level now there are no bead .
there are no bead at all .
they are the digit .
brian ha run test using this game in london italy and singapore and found that it help child with basic arithmetic .
in particular those with dyscalculia .
but it is still unclear what intervention this could do in the long term .
we can help kid and adult have a better understanding of how number work .
whether theyll ever be fluent calculator you are an and or i am .
it is not clear because what you would need to do is intervene early and then track the development of these kid over the next few year .
start in year one and end up in say year five or year six and see if it doe cure them .
or whether it help them be a little bit more competent .
listener israel you asked u why am i bad at math ?
weve heard that there are many factor at play here including your gene and environmental factor .
the place you learned mathematics .
i remember going to school in china .
a a your motivation and emotion when it come to number .
the anxiety i have about math .
but there is hope .
if math is important to you and you want to improve you can get better .
i shut myself in my room with that book .
although it might be hard work which is anything .
and then i aced that final test too .
there are some people however likely around five that have a learning disorder which affect their number sense .
and this make it a lot harder to do arithmetic .
thing five plus eight or ten time fifteen .
but there is much more to math than sum .
to end the show let me introduce you to emma .
she doesnt have an official dyscalculia diagnosis but shes always struggled with number and ha gone on to do great thing .
i studied astrophysics at university and i did a phd in cosmology which are both very mathematical subject .
i am also bad at mental arithmetic .
at school i never managed to learn my time table .
and i still can not work out the offer in the supermarket without a calculator .
despite this i wa always quite good at what people tend to consider to be more advanced type of mathematics .
thing algebra or calculus .
but of course that doesnt mean that you can not get good at thing that you find difficult .
i did learn my time table a an adult because i needed them to pas a test and i wa very very motivated to pas that test .
of course ive forgotten them again now but at least i know it is not impossible that for me thats a lot of hard work .
thanks emma .
and before i go a promised the answer to the problem at the start of the show .
all my animal are sheep except three all goat except four and all horse except five .
how many of each animal do i have ?
the answer is one horse two goat and three sheep .
thats correct .
this is a bit of a tricky one if you did not get the answer here is one way of working it out .
all of my animal are sheep except three mean that horse and goat must equal three .
there could be one horse and two goat or two goat and one horse .
but we know that they are all goat except four and that they are all horse except five which mean that there must be more goat than horse .
that mean that there is one horse and two goat .
but we also know that all of them are horse except five five animal minus two goat equal three sheep .
and thats it .
done if you got the answer you clever thing .
now back to listen to israel for the credit .
thats it for this episode of crowdscience from the bbc world service .
it wa presented by anand jakatia and produced by florian bo .
today question came from me israel in port moseby papua new guinea .
you have a science question youd the crowdscience team to look into .
you can do what i did and email crowdscience at bbc.co.uk .
thank you very much for listening .
tomorrow is halloween which mean lot of sweet and chocolate if you are lucky .
but with all those treat come even more wrapper and therefore even more waste .
i am sure weve all noticed in recent year that an increasing amount of packaging is now advertised a sustainable in some way .
but is it ?
a couple of week ago polymer scientist and sustainability expert mike shaver joined u at the ri to give a talk about his work in sustainable material development .
i managed to nab him for a chat a couple of hour before his talk to find out how to make my halloween a sustainable a possible .
mike thank you much for joining me today .
your team up in manchester look at sustainable material design particularly concerning plastic .
obviously plastic pollution is a mammoth problem to tackle but in order to create a better alternative we need to fully understand their role in our society .
in place supermarket and shop on the high street why were plastic introduced in the first place ?
i think thats a important question .
i think the first thing to think about is what the alternative were ?
and you used to go to a shop and you used to buy something which might not have any packaging at all .
we think about some of the item we would have bought from a grocery shop .
but the real benefit of introducing plastic and packaging were twofold .
the first is that they could increase the shelf life of material and that would prevent food from spoiling .
and the carbon footprint of food is higher than the package itself in many instance in most instance .
and we were able to both prevent food from spoiling and get a secure and more efficient supply chain for that food while keeping our carbon footprint low .
and the second thing is spoilage .
the consequence of that food going off is that food is a lot safer than it used to be .
we have fewer people who are going to get sick from food .
we now see that food recall are very rare .
and thats because the plastic can offer a lot of protection for those material .
and because that offer protection while being a efficient material to make and a very lightweight material an efficient material to transport make it very sustainable .
and when you then look at the difference between purpose and what some of the marketing is on new packaging it becomes a real challenge to unpick a a consumer .
yeah i think plastic is often painted a all these question are often preaching stop using single use plastic but a thats impossible .
but b that might not necessarily be a good idea because they are there for a reason and they do help a lot of thing .
and i think that thats especially true when we look past the bit of our world which we demonize the most in term of plastic the grocery store .
we think about hospital and why they have plastic .
they have plastic for important reason .
and they again keep u from getting sick keep disease from propagating and making sure that we can deliver health care in an efficient way .
the same is in the built environment .
and weve looked at the construction industry .
we used to be using lead pipe and now we are not using lead pipe anymore .
we are predominately using robust plastic type .
and the plastic universe is very intertwined .
and that doesnt mean that we are not supposed to be thinking about how to make it more sustainable .
but we depend on these material and these material are often the lowest footprint option to deliver whatever function we need them to deliver .
in the hunt to find a sustainable alternative what doe that sustainable plastic landscape look currently ?
whats the current trajectory of what we think could come in to replace it ?
yeah i think the first thing we have to address is that there are no panacea .
there no silver bullet that we can go let do this ?
because of the diversity of plastic function and the role that they play we need to be able to have lot of different solution that are going to work .
and ill give you an example back to the grocery store .
if i look at plastic wrap that might be over different food product .
that plastic wrap again is there for a reason .
but if i look at the plastic wrap that is around meat for instance it is important that that plastic wrap is impervious to oxygen because if oxygen get into the package then the meat will spoil .
but equally if i were to take a courgette that courgette if thats packaged up it ha to be able to release moisture .
it ha to be able to be permeable that same plastic wrap .
and the public might go and look at that and say we have two wrap that look the same .
but they are very complex material that have unique function and we have to make sure that they are fit for purpose .
the first thing for any alternative is we have to make sure that it delivers the same function ?
and that it can still perform what we needed to perform .
the second thing we need to do is to make sure that the that this is not a solution that exacerbates another problem ?
the law of unintended consequence to make sure that those material are produced themselves in an efficient way and that they themselves are sustainable .
and then the third thing is to consider and this is where a lot of our work sits to consider a multitude of different fate .
and how do we have a system in which we can incorporate lot of different thing ?
and some of those plastic item should be reused ?
some of those plastic item should be recycled .
some of those plastic item maybe would be degraded or perhaps deconstructed in some way .
but it is about getting a system in place where all of those different potential fate can work in concert with each other to get a sustainable outcome .
rather than one sustainable plastic it is more of a new sustainable system .
in all these case where there a sustainability branding what doe that process look ?
and is it accurate that that is whats happening to the material ?
i think that there is a lot of good work being done in the uk to provide a bit more authenticity around what those word mean .
but the challenge is that it take time to embed those process .
we have a number of legislative measure in the uk stuff the plastic packaging tax which is mandating thirty recycled content in our package to the upcoming extended producer responsibility legislation .
and the challenge with legislation however is that it lack the nuance to address those difference and integrate into a system .
and that lead to a little bit of a wild west approach where something can make a claim and it is not clear how thats realized .
and a good example of that is recyclable .
recyclable doesnt necessarily mean that that is recycled .
and for some i guess actor in this space those actor might be making a claim that something which is incinerated or incinerated for energy perhaps that that should be considered recyclable .
and when you have a lot of vested interest it lead to public perception of what those word mean not matching the reality .
and the same thing is true with recycled content .
and from our work we can show that by far the best sustainable outcome .
if you have a product the best thing for you to do is to increase the recycled content in that package .
but that is technically very difficult to do because of the same variability that we talked about .
you had mentioned the halloween candy ?
and when you have halloween candy or when you have christmas quality street tin suddenly have a change in the composition of the waste .
and if thats going to the recycling industry then suddenly the composition of their recyclet which is what weve called the material thats coming out that we want to include back into the packaging ecosystem also change .
we have seasonal change .
we have change based on geography .
we have change based on medium story which perhaps are giving the wrong messaging .
and that creates this complicated ecosystem because the company that are trying to include recycled content they might have a variable quality ?
and then they do not know that they can include this material with confidence .
that lead to a lowering of trust both with the public because they do not believe the word that are said on the package and a lowering of trust in the industry people the brand owner who are trying to incorporate that .
and that then come back to some fundamental science .
how do we go and develop the quality control tool that we need to be able to provide that authenticity both to industry that want to do the thing and public that want to do the thing .
and public that want to do the thing in term of purchasing .
and they want to know that the decision that they are making are the most sustainable one they can .
i think it is common that these issue come up and people in the general public do not have time to go and research .
what process wa behind the quality street wrapping changing from the foil to the papery packaging which i think wa in the last couple of year .
i wouldnt have time to go and for myself make the decision of whether or not that wa an accurate sustainable change .
i think that trust in the organisation that are doing it is crucial because people rely on it from a time constraint .
and i think that that that the uk ha been progressive in pushing for that .
the challenge is that it take time .
we have thousand and thousand if not hundred of thousand of product within the uk that even if we consider the packaging industry thats a lot of change .
and that change ha to exist in an international ecosystem not with the eu in a legislative sense but also also with the fact that we import and export many different thing from many different country .
talking about this trust in organisation labelling thing a sustainable that all fall under a broad title of greenwashing .
and on the topic of greenwashing there wa an example you used in a previous talk which i wanted to ask you about .
and that wa the mastercard story .
could you tell u about what happened there ?
that mastercard doesnt get me in trouble i think it is important to highlight that there are two kind of greenwashing. ?
there greenwashing which is purposeful .
and when an organisation know that what they are saying doesnt match the reality i think that thats a real problem .
and that requires an intervention .
but oftentimes organisation that we work with they do not know what the most sustainable option is .
and they are trying hard .
but if they do not have the information that they need then they could go and say something which then afterwards they are going to get accused of greenwashing .
and i think this is the case with the mastercard example where one of their leader got up and said this is the world first biodegradable credit card .
we all have them in our pocket .
and when that degraded in the environment what would it do ?
it would release the barium from the magnetic strip it would release the eighteen metal that are in the chipset all into the environment .
it is an ecological disaster waiting to happen .
it is not ideal .
but what do they do about it ? ?
they made an error in term of not understanding the unintended consequence .
and they then came to u and asked u what would a sustainable card look ?
and the reality is is those same metal those same element that are in that credit card are valuable .
and you can go and redesign your card and say we are going to build that around deconstruction .
we wouldnt be able to recycle that in the same sense because again all of those different material would get mixed into the recycling and lead to an exceptionally bad product .
and we did try that once or twice for fun .
but what that allows you to do is to then do what we call a deplimerization but a deconstruction of that card back down to the original chemical unit .
and we extract that chemical value from the system .
but when we strip that away what that offer is you can isolate the different metal that are in the chipset .
we even did it once or twice where we recovered the chip .
i can say with assurance that no nobody can get your data from those chip .
no one bank account wa hacked .
and i think that that show that you can go and create economic value by thinking about something a simple a a card .
now what wa interesting if i go into this a little bit further is when you then think about the social context of that .
what am i talking about ?
i am talking about going and getting someone credit card and then deplimerizing that back .
but everybody and i am sure you do it a not only do when you are done with a credit card do you cut it up probably into six piece .
you then take three of those piece and put them into one bin in your house .
and three of those piece somewhere else because somehow that is going to foil the economic mastermind who are going to go and steal your data .
and i think thats the challenge is if we can not recover that material then we have to be conscious ?
that we are not greenwashing ourselves in the sustainable solution that we devise .
if we can not get that security of material supply then we are never going to be able to deplimerize those card .
and where we are looking at that now is a very different space of the master card .
and thats in hotel .
because of what you do is you check into a hotel youve got your card you beep it into your room and then what do you do afterwards ?
and now you have an ability to go and have a secure supply of those card and people do not care because there is no information on it .
but they still have the same element that are on the inside which can be valuable to those system .
and thats very much about showing that technology ha to be developed for the reason ha to be developed with purpose and then developed in concert with stakeholder from across the value chain to get something off the ground .
i guess some of it also particularly in the credit card example rather than the hotel card is ease of consumer ?
is that a factor that also come in when you are devising these thing ?
and i think that this is especially true when you look at waste management system a they exist when you are outside the home ?
and a soon a you are on the high street do you want to go and take all of your packaging and then bring it back home and then separate it into the different component ?
it creates a real logistical challenge .
and a lot of the work we do is trying to make sure that the system is adaptable to the most common social practice rather than expecting behavior change .
because i think the valueless nature plastic are very much invisible to u . and that invisibility mean that we are not thinking about them .
and then to expect u to think about them and to change behavior is challenging .
it mean that the behavior change will not stick .
and building the system to adapt to behavior .
using behavioral understanding rather than expecting behavior change .
talking about how people recycle your research project focusing on this is called one bin to rule them all .
what is this project looking at specifically ?
yeah one bin to rule them all started a a joke with some of our industry partner and now is probably going to end up on my gravestone .
but the reality is that it is saying if the challenge is to secure supply what will people do if you give them a bin and say put everything that you think in plastic that is plastic into that bin ?
and then layered over that are three framing or three way to look at the plastic that might come through those bin .
thats a social science aspect .
qualitative social science interviewing the household who participated in our trial .
thats a material understanding .
understanding not only the nature of the material which could get put in there but importantly the contamination and then the economic opportunity which might be created from those material flow .
and i think that this is probably the first time that those three thing were looked at together in concert with each other .
and lot of time people look at these challenge from a disciplinary bias but to do something from a genuinely interdisciplinary space lead to very different decision .
and ill give you one example of that .
if we were to think about flexibles recycling ?
and this ha been a very hot topic .
you probably will have gone to a uk grocery store and seen the bin that you can shove your growth flexibles inside .
and when we looked at social practice on this what wa clear is that everybody took a flexible shoved all of their other flexibles inside that flexible and then tied a knot in that flexible .
but what everybody did from social practice is to transform their 2d material into a 3d material. . and now we have a consequence on our imagined sorting system .
and we have to think critically about making those sorting decision .
and the reality is is thats very much how our project work .
what are the sorting decision that we could make ?
what are the sorting decision that we should make ?
how should we make those ?
and where is the economic value hidden in those stream ?
that need to be informed by social practice .
we can not go and say everybody else do something .
do what we tell you to do ?
because we know i am originally from canada .
but in the uk man consumer are willful ?
everybody want to do their own thing .
and the system ha to adopt to that diversity of practice .
and that system then ha to make decision based on that diversity of practice .
you can define different technology or different solution that work in concert with each other to create that sustainable system if you understand the behavior that are going into that one bin to rule them all .
one of the behavior that you looked at in this research wa looking through people rubbish .
and i know there at least every other day in my kitchen there a debate about is this recyclable ?
can i put that in the recycling or can i not ?
maybe we shouldnt because we do not want to risk it .
what did you learn about how people recycle ?
we had different household study which were based across what are called the index of deprivation .
and that sound very grand and also mean .
but it mean across different socioeconomic demographic .
i think what wa firstly interesting is that there wa a great appetite to do the thing a long a that thing wa simple .
and a soon a that became more complicated then people would get confused .
and the type of contamination would change but the appetite to do the thing did not change .
and there is a huge amount of potential material that could be available .
but what we need is consistency ?
and that consistency come from legislation .
and a lot of our recommendation i guess from a policy standpoint were fed into what became the simpler recycling policy .
and that policy is not perfect .
and thats the economic tipping point that go and ensures that this happens on a much grander scale .
and the opportunity is there .
it is with u taking it .
what would your forward look goal be for this almighty singular bin scenario ?
what would you say five ten year down the line ?
what would be your ideal outcome ?
not to put you on the spot .
what i would say what we call rigids ?
and you can think of that your milk jug or your plastic tray .
rigids if they are clean and if they are segregated they offer good value .
you can mechanically recycle them .
in our lab weve done this hundred of time .
in the real world you can not do that hundred of time because there the law of physic you are competing against .
but in that scenario ridge are recyclable .
and focusing mechanical recycling capacity and that is very much what the norm is now i think can take the bulk of those rigids and make them into valuable product .
those valuable product do not necessarily need to be in the same sector ?
and it is a bit naive to say that the circular economy if youve heard that phrase is we should take a yogurt pot and turn it into a yogurt pot .
why do we not see value in taking a yogurt pot and turning it into a car ?
if you wanted if i could give you one of two thing a yogurt pot or a car you probably would take the car ?
the car hold a lot of value .
yeah i lean towards it .
and i think that thats the key is opening up what we consider to be valuable and keeping those material in it highest value condition .
reusing the thing that we can reuse transitioning those into recycling potentially putting those in different sector and then ensuring that we are underpinning that with good quality data that allow u to make those sustainable decision .
and a lot more openness and transparency in term of everything from the composition of material to how they flow through our life is key to allow u to make better decision and a system in which no plastic is released into the environment .
what we have to do is to move away from an extraction focused economy but we know that we have to keep using plastic .
and keeping them in the system for a long a possible is key .
for those listening who would to get a car are there any other obviously a lot of the change that need to happen is at a much higher level and a government need to implement certain thing .
i think that underneath all of this is if we are going to move away from an extractive world we have to buy thing that are valuable .
and buying thing which you want and which you need which you can keep in your life for a long period of time is key .
and what we want to avoid is the reactive i am going to buy a soft drink in a bottle because i feel thirsty now and ive forgotten my refillable water bottle at home .
i am going to hope for the best maybe check my recycled my recyclable bottle into the bin .
ive not looked at the package to see whether it ha recycled content but in the uk we do that very .
and then somehow that get turned into a sweater that i buy off of some lowquality website and i wear it twice and then it fall apart .
and i think that we have to buy smarter .
and that mean that we are looking for the thing that are sustainable now are item which have more recycled content in term of packaging item which you are going to keep and use for a long time .
something which is repairable or you are going to be able to reuse numerous time and avoiding those buy and throw away reactive purchase because they provide you with a little bit of dopamine .
short answer impulse control will help .
i know we keep linking back to halloween but i think weve spoken a lot about halloween candy .
and another thing that people might differently associate with halloween is drinking .
i am going somewhere with this i promise .
i know your team have looked specifically at sustainability in the beer industry .
what doe that entail ?
essentially one of the in manchester we run whats called the sustainable material innovation hub .
and one of the first project we did wa to unpick what is the most sustainable way to package up your beer .
and manchester is home to a plethora of absolutely fantastic brewer .
and we host the ditsbury beer festival where you can go and try all kind of different one .
but i think within that framing it is you have all of these different option for how to transport that beer .
you could have it in keg .
and that keg could be made out of metal or made out of plastic .
you could have it in cask .
and most of those cask are metal now although there some movement in the industry .
or you could then package it up in individual thing .
you could have it in a bottle a glass bottle or a aluminium can .
and each one of those ha a different sustainability footprint .
and we were surprised because if you think about it youve got to go and transport that beer from the brewery to wherever .
and the idea of putting that in something metal and heavy that ha a huge influence on the carbon footprint of those process .
and keeping that low the most sustainable option which we looked at wa using a plastic keg .
and there different brand for those and i am not going to market those brand .
but that is a decision that the brewing industry moved towards .
not because they had a sustainability setup but because it wa le expensive .
they were using le petrol to move everything around .
and because they were paying for weight in term of transportation they switched away from glass to aluminium can .
and they switched away from big metal keg for the most part to the plastic keg .
and that made their industry more sustainable .
but they did it for an economic reason .
and i think the interesting space we are in now is when we can tether an environmental outcome to an economic outcome then everybody win .
and it is getting industry to realise that that opportunity is present now and that they should take advantage of it .
there a misconception that the more ecofriendly way of doing something is more expensive .
but that certainly doesnt seem the case in that example .
and there are many option where it is still challenging to be ecofriendly .
but that doesnt mean that there are not opportunity .
and often getting a business to reframe their thinking identifying quick win for them which have that economic and environmental tether thats the beginning of a journey for them .
because sustainability is never absolute .
it is always a journey .
it is always relative .
and it is about moving along that space and each year being a little bit more sustainable than the year before .
there wa a popup by uber a couple of week ago in london and they put up their first carbon negative pub .
and i did not go because i only found out about it after it happened .
but from what i can understand they got people to pedal on bike whilst drinking which then powered the electricity of the pub .
and they had other thing going on that i think became a carbon deficit .
it wa overall carbon negative .
is that something you see being more common going forward ?
or do you think it is a case of the change that youve mentioned with transportation and thing that need to be implemented at first rather than making a cycling pub ?
yeah first thing first i think we should make it very clear that these were stationary bike and we are not at all recommending that people should cycle around london .
and cycle .
yeah do not drink and drive even under your own power .
but i think whats interesting there is it is a little bit of a gimmick ?
because that might be true that the operational cost .
we call those the emission that are associated with operating .
but of course what you have then is the embodied carbon and whatever those cycle were .
and it is a huge footprint .
how long would they have to have driven those cycle around to recover the carbon thats associated with the production of those bicycle in the first place ?
yeah i think it wa a two day pop up .
yeah a lot longer than two day .
there probably need to be the uber ceo need to still be down there cycling away .
but i think what those event do do is to bring a community together to start talking about sustainability .
and even if that is a little bit gimmicky if it brings sustainability up in discourse up in the narrative around which we how we purchase what we decide to do that i think is important .
and even with a little bit of greenwashing of that it still is a good event because it is framed around sustainability and it get people to think .
i think it is also a case of instead of the narrative of making your lifestyle more sustainable mean it need to be worse instead of being you can still do this thing that you normally do .
and it is a little bit weird and quirky and fun .
instead of losing something in your life in order to be more sustainable you are gaining a bit of a different experience and not having to not go to the pub anymore .
and i think you are also choosing your you choose you choose your vice a . . and the going out to the pub having a pint without purpose i think is when you have the option to go out and do something with purpose .
and that could be a simple a i am connecting with people and i am building up a social currency that is important and considering that we are all in this ecosystem together .
i think all of those thing are key but we should be thoughtful about our consumption and we should consider sustainability economic environmental and social sustainability and how we live our life .
i have a final halloween link back and a final question for you .
and this can be with a sustainability viewpoint or not .
in preparation for tomorrow do you have a halloween costume planned or do you have one on the back burner thats a good safe bet ?
what i would say is that the most important decision that you have to make in the halloween costume space is the same a weve been talking about with the rest of this in that you want something which is going to last .
something which is meaningful to you but that you can reuse .
and i find the best thing to do is to go to a thrift shop figure out something that somebody ha already loved and build the costume from there but build it in such a way that you can reuse it again and again and again .
and if anybody asks you why you are wearing the same costume a last year you can say you are trying to save the world .
also it is a good costume why not ?
and it is a good costume ?
i think thats the key reuse and buy something which ha been discarded by someone else .
on that note thanks much mike and good luck in your talk .
yeah thank you very much .
thanks for having me .
thats all for this month .
thanks for listening .
make sure to keep an eye on our youtube channel for mike full public program talk .
but in the meantime head to rigb.org to check out all our upcoming event from more amazing speaker .
welcome. . hello hello everybody and welcome to the citizen science podcast and we are live if we are having technical issue but i am happy you all are here and let go ahead and get the show started .
anyway we have the one and only samuel hoffman of course here with u . let go ahead and add him on we can talk about this twin solar system .
there other planet that are passing close by earth ?
a we speak now we are going to be seeing lot and lot of picture of them a we go through the show today .
i do not know why the music stop .
thats the second week thats happened and it throw me off .
and taylor get it off and go welcome instead of welcome to the show .
it is normal .
anyway we have to we have to .
it is live .
i panic and then i forget what i am going to say and then i what i do say make no sense .
but we are here .
let turn the music down .
now that is playing .
let turn it down a notch .
boy hows montana ?
it is crispy and fifty three degree sunshine with mostly cloud here and there .
yesterday it wa cloudy and cold .
it is been very cold at night lately .
we have been below freezing .
it wa twenty seven degree and twenty nine degree last couple of night .
frost on all the ground snow in the mountain .
thats chilly .
the leaf are all pretty much falling off the tree and yeah .
yeah it is fall and the kid will have a bunch of leaf to walk through on halloween night which is only five day away .
it is supposed to be seventy degree halloween night in oklahoma .
seventy five .
a big rewarmup hot pressure system went through this week .
i know you have to bring the other guy out but do you remember last week show we were talking at the beginning of where i wa doing the weather and we were talking to the people that were in new mexico .
and i hope those folk were that may have been listening because they immediately got bombarded with a very very serious blood scenario a we were on the show last week .
i knew it wa coming but i did not know it wa immediately while we were doing the show .
somewhere in canada got bombarded with a flood at the same time frame also .
that stood out .
i got in trouble again for our flood video .
i did not tell you about that .
i do not want to if you are going to play those video do not run the sound .
talk over it yourself from the information that you gathered from the video .
yeah do not play the sound .
i think thats where you are getting it .
. . ill try that .
try that .
thats why i stopped .
flood video and stuff that because i wa getting in trouble for them and never give out death count or say a couple of key word these day .
we are having to change our key word .
we have it .
we never used to have to worry about what you are saying now but now we have to be very careful .
and i have speaking of strange i am not even there nobody even on my personal page anymore commenting or liking .
it is i do not get out to anyone anymore .
and i post a bunch of stuff on my personal page and granted only my friend can see it but i have over fivezero plus friend and nobody commenting .
we should definitely have more people popping in and popping out .
i did see yesterday one of your short came across the youtube short playlist on smart tv .
that wa a good thing. ?
we were . . you got promoted .
honestly i got some views. . speaking of which i did in christopher video around a whole bunch of site today because he had such a short view count .
and i sent it to about twenty different site today we can up his view count .
but anyway i am sure you have to bring your guy in and here we are gossiping and they are in the green room .
hey are you guy eating the doritos and all the green mm and all the green room ?
speaking which one would go get a couple ?
i see julian and she look shes ready .
she look shes ready .
she ha a big smile on her face .
let go ahead and get julian in here and we can see how thing are going in scotland .
hey there she is .
julian watson everybody .
i am trying to keep puppy dog off my lap because i brought my halloween tub in with me because it is got my sweetie in .
my show sweetie .
the baby .
for all of u theyve eaten all their sweetie already .
the only thing theyve got left is their doggy chop .
a couple of piglet .
thats how it is in scotland .
it is been raining raining raining .
it wa seven degree celsius and it wa raining .
in the morning it wa entirely different .
but by the time i got out of work a i opened the door to go out thats when i know whats happening .
my weather app wa .
it say rain by three oclock .
and what do ?
there it is .
and what did i forget at home today ?
my waterproof trouser .
what a genius. . . . i do not know what to think .
you had to be out riding your bike in the rain .
that would be not fun. . no .
i hope it stay clear for you on your journey to and from work .
thank you .
i am not working for the next two day .
we can talk about that too .
let go ahead and get christopher in here .
i see he sitting there all by himself in the green room and it look sad .
let go ahead and get christopher in here with this guy .
he quite lonely .
he ha eaten .
hell be eating all these chocolate and these scissors and stuff .
save u some munchies. . hey there he is christopher .
hey everybody .
how are you guy doing ?
it is still warm .
it is i think it is set at eighty five degree but it feel a lot hotter than that. ?
i walked across the street before the show and i am all hot and sweat .
my forehead sweating .
it is still hot here .
. . i have to go and let these two dog out or else ill get moky .
yeah i wa going to say yesterday it is nice .
it is in the 70 here and i stepped out back to take picture and the sun wa hot .
it start stinging and i am this is not comfortable .
i stood there and i wa thinking i had a feeling of dread .
if it get unbearably hot i am going to be miserable .
i wa thats what i thought to myself because it is already seventy degree and my skin is burning. . it is weird .
it is not .
it is not .
that would be that extra star that is not being seen by most of the population here .
and if we are feeling it .
the animal know it is there .
the plant snow it is there .
those winter overplants that weve never seen before here in montana where you can have a garden that turn to seed and is still living sticking out of the snow .
ive never seen that in montana before but we have seen it up here for quite a few year now .
it used to be that .
that took a half hour when i wa a kid. . that took a half hour before you even got warm from the sun .
and people do not realize that we have a big huge red mall .
god ive watched a bunch of climate climatological video this last week .
it and they are talking about co2 sequestration and then what we have to do and how we have to adjust our living and all this blah blah blah .
and i am going to meanwhile i am standing there shaking my head going yep you are not taking into a big as thing that came up .
from below .
thats why we are hot .
thats why it burn .
thats why we get instant suntan now and all of that. . anyway and it is it is not the size of your sun .
it is way bigger way bigger star than weve ever had throughout my lifetime .
that that should maybe account for something .
i took a video the other day either evening a sunset and the sun wa big .
ill show you all the clip in a minute but yeah it wa noticeably huge and flaring a i moved the camera around the sun would bulge out and do crazy stuff .
it wa very noticeable .
and one other thing i do not know the last couple of show youve heard me complain about not having any good picture day no cloud though that ha still remained the same .
we are going on about a month sam .
i check i check all the time .
i keep looking at because a soon a it is great i am going to go live .
i want to go live and i want to have something to talk about .
but whats going on ?
everybodys getting picture of cloud but nothing here .
we are very white out going on again .
i had blank out. . yeah nothing .
yeah i i i drove yesterday and i hardly saw anything in the sky either .
i saw the asteroid .
i saw a couple of tiny little star destroyer up there but for the most part i did not see a lot of planet .
i saw a little bit of saturn yellow moon ion tail going from the hand side of the sun to and it wa in the south at the time because it wa the sun wa in the southeastern slash south sky and which it shouldnt be .
it is supposed to be overhead at noonish and one oclock and two oclock but no it is in the south sky .
do not worry about that .
thats normal .
not and it it blow me way of all the thing that are happening now and nobody notice or put these together .
and they are antinormal in everything that i ever grew up with .
and ill tell everybody again go watch an old western that wa filmed in the 70 . look at the size of the sun .
look at the cloud in the sky .
you it is nothing in comparison to how what we have going on above our head now .
i am realizing i am going and then it moved and then it moved and then it moved and i am wow he doing it .
and when you give me goosebump you are doing good. ?
thats awesome .
i thought that wa important to show how how quickly after you make a drawing these photo start coming in that match .
it is incredible .
is it that ?
let look at that .
this is incredible .
you got to you take a first glance and you are yeah but then you got to stop and look back and forth make the comparison and even look at the shape of all the streak about the tree there and look at sam drawing .
and it is the drawing wa released a few hour before this photo wa submitted and it wa taken yesterday in idaho .
and also i want to point out immediately when i saw this drawing i thought to myself about how orange i sat him wa .
and i am i saw in the drawing he had put yellow and whatnot into i sat him .
that stood out because i said i am red .
and anyway within a few hour this picture i wa scrolling and i am my god it is orange the drawing .
anyway i had that one of those moment but it is perfect .
and then here another example .
and it not orange but still you can perfectly see the lead asteroid .
you can see that darker blue rounded shape .
yeah it lined up perfect to .
and you get line up perfectly .
you do not have to make any adjustment .
all you have to do is overlay sam picture and it fit exactly .
you do not have to resize it or crop it down to make it fit .
it fit perfect .
it is incredible .
and i will point out again that i do not copy this off the computer and i sit down in the living room at the living room table and next to my window which ha a north facing view .
and i do not copy out of the sky either .
i sit down and with my dinner plate and my ive got this plastic peanut butter top and a bowl .
and thats what i draw the round shape with and i move them around in front of me on the paper until it fit what my brain is telling .
this is where it is .
this is what i see .
and this is what i think .
and then i draw it in and it is completely prehand .
it is out of my head .
and thats where it give me goosebump because it is unbelievably accurate .
and and it is amazing because this is what i see in my head .
and i draw it is perfect again .
again it is and weve been watching it at least ive been watching it now for it is been a year but i think ive been able to visually see it for myself for eight month now .
and we are watching it month after month .
we can tell exactly what is in the sky .
and then sam draw these drawing and they fit perfectly .
i thank you main .
i took now because i did not think i wa going to see anything .
it is been gray the whole day .
and when i looked at it because i wa waiting for the amazon man the i looked at it and i seen it .
it looked on the horizon but over to i am not even sure what that is anymore because i am sure we tipped again .
we are twisted round the sun coming out even further behind the tree now .
but i do not know how rapidly this thing happens because we are moving into our one orbit .
yeah this is my first time watching it because last year i wasnt when i came here .
but this year i can look at everything and it is amazing .
and i thank you the picture rebecca .
i do not know if you found them .
they are glorious purple and purple and pink streak and them .
but they had orange .
i heard you guy talking about orange now .
the base of saru ha moved far closer within the last couple of week too .
i am sorry to cut in but apology .
one of the dog hurt himself and if we were out now took me a wee bit .
but i did hear you say something to do with me but yeah .
saru is moving in more quickly on the horizon to the midleft of left of the sun .
and it got bigger even in the last week .
and i saw a couple of shot earlier for the last couple of day where we are going wow thats big wow thats big wow thats big .
yeah they are going over the top of u and the opacity is getting smaller .
and attu and attus mood are getting smaller .
and we are starting to see actual spatials of attu .
now generically and we were talking about this prior to the show generically we are seeing attus mood is in front of attu predominantly .
but we are now starting to see the underneath and the bottom of attu a which is also in your video christopher. . yeah because i am sure ive seen ridge of something .
it wa incredible .
and nicole got a couple of good capture today a showing the same thing .
and of course this is people around the world capturing the same thing because thats whats above u and thats whats real .
and these are not cloud .
these are planetary object with cloud their own atmosphere around them .
and they continue you will leave continuously but then you will leave .
i always hate that they appear the same .
now here another example of a saturn shellamoon in front of a saturn .
although yeah and lead object which is darker dead center .
on the top .
yeah you can see it .
flame base cloud and the flame micro clouding and the orange .
i wa going to say mainly i pulled this up because you were talking about saru .
and i the light blue at the very bottom you said with saru .
on the left hand side on the left hand side behind that track that circular rounded cloud that is light baby blue above the horizon on the left .
thats the open core bottom of saru .
and that thicker one line of cloud above the light blue is the base ring of saru .
and it is very thick and there one of them .
where nepecity ha three ring .
saru ha one very thick lower base ring .
the blue immediately above that base ring is the green blue of planet saru .
which is on the left hand side of the sun .
with an axis tip hattus axis tip is getting greater now .
and then yuri is getting pushed out of the way and up and big .
and there at dawn and then doe the big final reveal at the end of the day at sunset you can finally see yuri better .
and it is weird how all of that rotates around u along with our sun .
and strange .
hey i see hector lopez is here .
hector i got your letter .
thank you .
it only took two and a half almost three month .
thank you very much .
what a relief .
yeah i wa concerned .
i wa concerned for him too .
and it is it is important to me .
thank you .
it wa perfect timing a always is .
of course everybody know out there we are all broke now me included especially .
and they they i am going to say they raised my damn internet bill nine.forty last month .
and then next month and then the next month and then it keep going up and up .
and i am paying one hundred and seventy five a month for internet now .
thats a lot .
thats a lot .
it barely work .
if higher speed wireless download yeah but upload speed absolutely suck .
and the only thing worse than that unfortunately is that i find out that starlink is even worse on upload speed .
yeah ive been hearing a lot of people talk about that how it is it shuts off at random time and they got to deal with it i guess .
there a lot of political going on around the uplink to starlink now .
we mean we might see a very serious argument over said service because some people who are involved in that are getting themselves into trouble on the political and economic commonplace of the market .
and anyway ill leave it at that .
i do not want to go into too much detail but elon musk is making some mistake .
but anyway yeah i know that ive mentioned it probably through my as over it and it is merely my opinion .
and i am entitled to my free speech opinion of what i see happening on the public news service .
thank you .
talk place or anything because i am not a stock broker and i can not give up on that advice .
cover that one .
and no hamster were injured in the making of this video .
let see who all is here .
let see who here because i see several .
i do not want to get back to the top here and boy look who here .
it is nicole first in line .
thats pretty since shes been first in line .
i think nicole hello from shes in colorado .
this is your friendly reminder that et never left always been here .
she know .
she know .
good to see you nicole .
and by the way i that you did it too .
yeah yeah yeah well play that too here in a short minute .
thats fun wasnt it ?
yeah thats .
those are cute .
boy screaming thin man is here .
i love that name .
i wonder if he thin .
he got some of your picture .
nice. . good to see you here .
nice to see you too susie .
always is .
and here miss tara .
she came in second place recently on some contest .
i did not catch all the detail but thats pretty .
second place is i am impressed .
and here is brendan .
he in ireland .
i know that much .
experimental is here .
i always can count on her being here on time .
she wa here two minute early everybody .
good to see you experimental .
and what did i tell you ?
tracy they always travel together .
tracy and experiment .
they are a pack .
but can not tell me thats not planned .
thats cute .
you guy calling each other ?
you are gon na tell them no you are gon na comment ? .
are they roommate or what ?
thats cute .
audrey is here in south africa and it is ten p.m. and thirty four degree celsius .
good to have you .
and here is our good friend michelle .
good to see you michelle in indiana .
and well have to get her back on here soon .
i do not know what her plan are but i miss talking to her we got ta arrange that. . and experimental said hi to me .
maria is here .
and shes such a nice lady too .
she is .
shes a nice person .
peace be with you too .
they are always sweet and positive .
but awesome to see you .
good to have you .
i wa hoping id see freesie in the list .
she is here .
freesie peach .
i wonder what the story is behind that .
everybodys got a name a story behind why they chose whatever .
hey robert .
he here in new zealand .
hey how you doing ?
i always look forward .
and i seeing his picture .
there something special about robert picture .
i know sam agrees with that thats cool .
i think and here we got hector .
hector is here which i already knew that .
but good to see you hector .
and he wa apologizing for being twenty four minutes. . ill let you slide .
and josies here. . wait not that .
did not click .
hey there she is .
and we are all caught up .
and robert giving u high five time three .
but hello everybody .
let me ill show you all real quick what i am talking about a far a a sky .
here my little tiktok from a couple of day ago .
this is about six.thirty in the evening .
and this is what the sky ha been looking .
i am not kidding but i take morning picture and evening picture and it is there nothing to see. . wait let me try to play it again .
but i still know they are there .
i it doesnt matter whether the sky is blank or clear .
it is not letting me play it .
ill get to that .
ill play it in a second .
it keep i probably am going to have to back out and come back in .
that happens regularly .
yeah you get to fall once when you are talking a moment ago .
this is after every show i send stream yard a message with my list of issue .
i had no i had no notice this morning when i woke up at all. . ill be .
that make you wonder if the whole world ha gone down and or or is it you .
i know a few week ago verizon had a total shutdown of their service for several hour and i am did i pay the phone bill ?
but yeah we had no internet no electrical and we and that wa one of the night .
and you are sitting there i got five handle burning in the living room i can stay warm .
standing with your hand out going electricity you can turn back on anytime now .
and we had a pretty heavy windstorm the other night and that wa that brief thing that went through montana and then up into canada .
but then that wa part of the warmup and that cutoff low that went through and over the top of colorado the other day and then over the top of you guy rebecca and then since left the country and is headed toward the uk .
and four day later nobody even remembers them .
it is why these guy are going to be repairing this damage for the next ten year and society ha already forgotten four day later .
let not forget what you stopped in florida and north carolina in asheville .
and now because they are in the valley and that side of north carolina never get hit with tropical storm or hurricane and they got they got the straight line flooding in there and that went all in those little tight little valley and asheville is gone .
and i am sure there a whole bunch of them gone .
yeah there and there still another body count and i hope i do not get blank for this but it is over two hundred and forty people and still ninety people missing .
and that wa the last i heard .
that could be inaccurate by today count .
but they are over two hundred and forty people .
it is not important anymore of that stuff .
we do not know whats going on .
yeah it is amazing how past it is .
yeah the people that live there have a different story than what the people .
yeah ive heard a lot from people on tiktok and these video and they are given to you on your feed and these people are all there .
they are there .
they know whats going on .
thats sad. . i am annoyed because the medium is ... it is not even coming yet .
it is not even coming .
northern africa they flooded last week the week before france flooded a couple of day before that because it wa the same storm .
look whats going on in africa northern africa which is hilarious .
they are getting rain and the desert is turning green and it is happening quickly .
i think you can see that from up high can not you ?
you are getting satellite footage of the the sahara desert is now turning green .
and it is not small area .
theyve seen on satellite that ha to be a biggest area thats no green .
all of northern africa is changing and it is getting greener .
and now remember all the flooding in the desert in saudi arabia and yemen and all of those guy are all soaked and theyve got twenty year worth of rain this year and last year .
and all of thats going to change .
ive seen video from greece on the fourth of october .
these mad purple storm with lightning and that wa when bonkers and pouring. . and it wa sideways storm .
and weve already forgotten about the typhoon that went through taiwan and north korea and vietnam .
and that wa a week ago .
no there something else coming is not there ?
two hundred and forty kilometer per hour wind sideways .
you couldnt even see across the street .
now we had that here in montana a a couple of year ago .
we had seventy and eighty mile an hour wind that went through and you couldnt see across the street .
and it tore all the tree down everywhere .
and then we had that storm here a couple of month ago through lolo and that hit missoula and missoula county .
and those were the top peak gust .
i think it wa ninety five mile an hour up on one of the mountain .
and local mountain not a big mountain a local smaller mountain .
and the outside the valley of missoula or one of the mountain at the edge valley of missoula at ninety five mile an hour gust .
and of course the downtown area the university district got wiped out from all the older tree that have been in the city for forty fifty year .
and those thing got trashed .
this is happening all over the world .
and i do not think people are sharing that .
off the road .
and i think they are calling it an isolated isolated incident .
and it is not we are watching drastic dire extreme climate change go off before our very eye .
and how we were supposed to have storm ashley during the week ? .
here the thing about three day before the storm .
they kept sending me cipa alert .
now thats the scottish environmental protection agency because i linked up with that when i started cycling further to go to work .
and i always thought youve got to know what you are facing wind rain sleet whatever .
because ive never been in ice and all these thing before .
but yeah they filled u full of it the whole week .
and then the storm hit and we are still waiting for the storm to hit .
and that wa the storm .
and when i looked at my weather app we are sitting in a a shape this .
and this shape go that and it change .
but we are always inside this shape .
we did not get much of anything .
you were in the wind .
we were in somewhere between thirty five to fifty five mile and over wind .
and in south africa they had a saying if your dustbin is not in the next street then it wasnt a storm .
it wasnt the southeast .
i thought ive still got off of how many bin .
and weve got six of them seven eight .
ive still got them all .
thats a good count .
because thats all of my animal .
i wa panicking about the weather .
and then also wa it yesterday or today ?
i took picture of the goose and maria wa also commenting on our feed that they sound very distressed .
now the bird were it looked the form of an opacity going over how she affect the sky .
she wa over to the of me here .
and the bird were underneath her doing these figure of eight big cloud of them under there .
and you could i seen that the first time and i thought look at that .
these bird are doing this massive massive thing .
and these are goose doing that ?
thats the case .
we are doing that .
it is they did not know where they were going and they were severely agitated because maria being sensitive she is to that with what she said to me she know animal .
she said that they felt to me even in a video that i am not even in the environment but they feel agitated severely agitated where are we going ?
and it is obviously affecting the gps .
this electrical thats happening is very random .
it seems even the weather apps will one minute tell you one thing and then you go back and it is changed within the thirty minute .
you are they are not taking into account the passing body and the weather that they call u and the asteroid below them and all of that and planetary none of that is taken into account .
everybody ha to connect to science and they wonder why their equation do not work anymore .
nicole wa talking about this .
the sahara rebecca had it posted there for a minute .
she pulled it down .
the sahara desert ha not always been it is .
yeah shes .
they talk about the yds and all that in the egyptian .
in the early egyptian dynasty that wa on .
they are finally coming to term with some of the stone even in the pyramid etc .
are concrete poured using limestone rather than carved .
and yeah they are finally starting to discover there a whole bunch of stuff going on that they did not look at properly because they do not grant technology to reality .
they granted to the western science and western science say this and anything outside that people do not talk about because then they lose accreditation and then lose their their respectability in the science community blah blah blah .
and we never we never worry about that here .
i had a friend of some matter of fact .
why do not you write this paper and turn it into the academy of science they can debate it with you .
and i went yeah stick my head in the guillotine .
you bet i want to raise a flag to me going if you do not know about me then i do not want you to .
but yeah the sahara desert wa not always what the sahara desert look now .
and this wa a bunch of sand that blew in from the far east .
and that all had to do with climate change since the last cycle .
and all of that dust and everything theyd have to do a lot of check .
but if you go down deep enough to find different color of sand from different era and different area where it blow in through the atmosphere from other region .
and you have to remember mountain range used to be taller and they get worn down .
and they now one of the greatest content on earth is silica .
and silica doesnt break down .
and a lot of our sand is silica .
and you can you anyway there there a whole research topic on that .
but you look at sand under the microscope .
thats also another wonder is not it ?
and whats the difference between sea sand and desert sand ?
there a big difference between that .
and ocean sand for example some sand you can not use in cement some sand you can use .
the sand you can use in cement is on very short supply believe it or not .
it is we do not have a lot of that available on planet earth anymore .
because weve been using it all up .
and thats a topic you can look up a . thats an interesting dive down a new rabbit hole .
but anyway i digress .
are you ready to kick them off there rebecca ?
let i am going to try that clip again and see if it will let me play it .
and yeah you are welcome nicole .
you are welcome .
for sure .
let give it a go one more time and cross my finger .
come on boy .
it say the browser your browser is having trouble sharing your video .
if anybody can find a way around something itd be me .
let look at christopher video .
they are good .
let start the show with christopher .
and hopefully it show .
let try it again during the week .
i am earlier i wa saying all we have to do is watch christopher video and then we can go home because he said it all .
we do not even need to do a show .
watch christopher video. . well go home .
the mini mini show .
click on those .
we know they are some of them are working for you. . i know .
i am going to resave it and try it again .
i even the type .
yeah look at that thing .
yeah the line are even exactly .
they are it .
i am telling you you put the overlay on .
it is it is perfect .
it is incredible .
it is i took the paper and traced over the top of it .
and i did not of course i do not even have any tracing paper .
i put that on my shopping list .
i forgot about this .
this wa weird .
i wa trying to find web cam to see if maybe my find some good one .
but what wa that ?
i remember you asked what that wa .
that that thats the tan asteroid .
thats what i thought .
that that illumination on the left is the tan asteroid .
i could see i sat him in uri and then i thought that ha to be an asteroid or .
and i sent to answer you on that on your video when i saw it .
and i clicked off of it and did not answer you .
yeah i saw that the other day .
and yeah thats the tan asteroid illuminating .
it is going to get facially illuminated more .
yeah there .
that big left blob there .
that is the bottom of the tan asteroid and the salamander asteroid coming into around the rotational a uri orbit or rotates i should say and rise .
and a it rotates those asteroid which are slowly angling out of the bottom of uri in the in the gas cloud mix pop out and then they become illuminated .
and weve seen it year ago a . and it is back to being the cycle and october and it is going to be illuminated .
i played this one much .
it is perfect .
it is the sky get wild here .
it is rebecca sky .
there nothing .
and then when we do get something happening it blow up .
yeah. . sorry chris .
you can see it with your own eye .
it is clouding on all .
nobody will use it or leave the planet in sound .
shes a red asteroid there in this shot .
behind the death guy .
it is it is there no doubt in my mind now .
it is for many month i kept doubting it .
and i do not know why my brain would not allow me to accept it at all .
we still argue with it .
everybody argues with this over and over again .
it is not what we normally .
yeah when have you ever seen a sky that or that ?
yeah or that .
look at that .
and then ive got curve man .
i remember that one .
that shot is from two thousand and thirteen or fourteen .
thats the lead asteroid crossing in front of the summit a few year ago .
this of course two thousand and eighteen .
this is twenty .
it is two thousand and twenty two thousand and twenty one .
and it blow your mind to think that they are that .
and how could this possibly be ?
but it is over and over .
i have it that they are they are close and the fact that they travel close together to it doesnt .
i guess there can be a thats normal because .
there could be many different combination of how the planet can travel together and all sort of solar system .
i think our out view is partially magnified .
it is looking through a glass of water .
yeah it is the fishbowl effect .
yeah because i saw it in in your video in the coal video and everything these planet look they are immediately next to each other and there no way they that they can be .
and yet in our out view this light pincher this is shining between the planet .
nothing else can do that .
suddenly doesnt suddenly change shape in the sky unless there something cutting it off .
between u and the sun .
more information on the binary twin solar system .
follow the beer follower anonymous .
and it happens over and over and now if it wa a one time thing all we saw this and wed go yeah it is clouds. . but we see this every day month in month out year in year out .
we watch the progression .
the drawing perfectly match all the time .
my accuracy rate is scary .
and it even bother me because i am that accurate .
and all i do is draw out of what i see in my head .
i can imagine how you feel sometimes .
i there day that i sit there and i shake my head and go wow .
and then there day that i shake my head and go god i hope i am doing this . . i think you are .
i think we can say you are definitely a. if it aint broken .
it is broken. . i do have a lot of stress from this though .
i do not want this to be happening .
but it is .
i do not want to have happening what i see is coming .
and it is .
it is spooky what we are headed to .
it is only going to work .
i had that dread feeling yesterday .
i think i would be glad when the when this .
election season is over to .
i think everybody i think everybody on the planet is under an excruciating amount of stress now from the planetary body going by and the asteroid going by and the electrical .
increase thats going on from the x cloud .
we have another x class to flare today .
thatll be hitting u in a day or two .
it is only a two but itll still itll it is an x class .
it is going to it is going to .
somebody saying it wa a three.three that leah fox lady .
she get a little bit carried away and worry a little bit much .
not that she doesnt do a good job but shes a little bit overly concerned .
or thats how i take it .
this is of course merely my opinion .
there could be an entirely different story to it anyway .
yeah i think we are i think all of u are feeling the planet .
i think a lot of u are sick to our stomach .
a lot of u our ear are ringing .
we are having new ache and pain new emotional trouble .
there these all these deep dark old hidden lost long ago faux pa in our past that are burping up in our lap every day .
and thinking about thing that we never even wanted to remember and yet here they come back to haunt u and there a lot of that going on .
and i am experiencing it a . and i try to work my way through it and go it is .
it is .
it is something you are you are clearing the shelf .
you are going to get through this .
this is a positive thing .
but i think we are all feeling some unusual very uncomfortable feeling around the world .
i think everybody is feeling this .
some some question from audrey in south africa .
shes got somebody asking her thing about the planet .
she say please ask sam a question for me .
a friend of mine asked me if it wa possible for a solar system to have one group of planet and two sun .
no it is possible .
depending on the proximity .
now there are sun .
there are star out there that that new star are embedded partially sticking out of old star .
there all kind of different way the star can can facilitate .
they can be closely binary attached with one solar system .
i would imagine it is possible .
but generically it ha to do with then youd have to be looking at a two atom atomic structure with very low protein .
and there are low count of neutron and electron .
it would be an early it would be a very early solar system because it would continue to add to the compounding a long a it is within it chemistry constraint .
and yeah yeah there all there billion of solar system .
yeah you can have any variation there. . high group of star distant star star that orbit around each other very vastly different but yet they are vastly far apart from each other .
and yet they are still electrically attached because of whatever compound .
i am sure that there solar system out there with four star or five star live atom four atom three atom two atom .
it is a rarity to have one star and one solar system .
it is only eighty three not yet seventeen .
and the billion of different possible equation than seventeen of them can have one or two star and beyond .
watch carl stegen in the billion and billion of star .
and thats probably a small estimate number two .
not all that .
they are finding out how little they do know .
here they are talking about they think the universe the big bang and all is eight point .
you get two scientist in the room and they do not even agree on the date .
but anyway eight.six eight.two billion year old .
we talked about this last week on last show .
and here theyve discovered a star that is twelve.six billion year old .
excuse me it show you how little you do know .
now remember everything we are looking at is all shit in the past .
all the light took all these millennium to get here .
we do not even have an abject out view of reality .
we are looking at only light emitted in the past .
we do not even have a concept of the now in space and they are stumbling and going yeah we know we know no you do not .
but if you are big if you are piggybacking off einstein and gravity then you do not know .
it is that simple .
maybe some of your equation work but the rest of them do not .
and then they go the heisenberg uncertainty principle because if we watch our experiment they are not going to come out .
no no thats an excuse .
you get your paycheck next month .
and that wa one thousand eight hundred and eighty and we are still running out of it .
i got to keep teaching a a college professor .
because i watched my experiment it did not turn out .
yeah and then they say the science is correct .
no the science is not correct .
there is much more going on than that .
we live in an electrical universe atomic structure atom proton neutron electron .
what work in the subatomic also work in the athroatomic .
and that is the mission the missing link that einstein couldnt fathom .
and that is the unification model .
what work in chemistry subatomic to asterotomic one set of rule .
thats simple .
and anything more complicated is it is absurd .
it is ridiculous .
it is simpler than that .
and thats why they are missing it because it is there .
he also had a question about that step .
there this picture that you always show u this the king pointing at the thing in the heaven .
love that .
you wanted you to describe what those object are that he pointing at again .
well point at the second object up .
on the left hand side .
thats the lead object in the asteroid object cluster group .
i said that wa the cluster group there .
we have early year the two thousand and eighteen and two thousand and nineteen picture on that hopi picture .
yes that rebecca showed a few minute ago in your video i believe christopher that white everybody think is a watermark .
no thats the illuminated object cluster group .
and thats thats the second icon on the left that he pointing to .
and the bigger one of course would be yuri and attu below it .
and then you go up and there a square on that a up toward the top there in the middle .
and that would be the cube .
and speaking of the cube a fun .
i posted a awesome photograph this last two day or because i got it today .
ill get that .
he got some incredible picture this week .
yeah that wa the lead asteroid wasnt it that monster on the ?
no the one the picture i am talking about a font capture the two cube parked next to each other .
and the text is cube were in the same shot one next to the other .
and i did not comment on the on his page about that because i did not want to stick my neck too far out .
but i guess i am publicly doing that in voice .
there are time i say something and other time i hold my tongue until i think about it for a while .
and usually ill come back to think two or three time and look at something .
but i looked at it a couple of time today already and i went my god thats both cube .
bear with me .
and yeah i have it ready to say i wa getting ready to do that .
but ill go ahead and get that finished up .
i do have jillians picture ready .
i make sure i got him saying though i say i have them ready but i sent them over .
let see if they are here .
with that we should see some interesting glory again here tomorrow or .
id have to look up when that wave is going to hit u . great .
i do not know if i could take any more .
yeah we do feel we do feel the field effect on the earth .
there are more earthquake .
there is more electrical activity .
our internet service go down a radio wave service radio in your car stereo go off .
the light at work were fluttering too .
light and work or generator will burn out .
people have already forgotten the one that one flare that we had huge that affected the hoover dam .
one of their transformer burned out during one of those .
and they are going pop all over the world .
but we do not see those video .
those generator are blowing up all around thailand and malaysia and germany and turkey and afghanistan or poland .
we do not see those video because nobody slap the puzzle piece together .
all these electrical generator and dam are blowing up or this generator blow up or that generator blow up .
and they do not connect the dot .
and if you started studying and had a google list or an ai check that information for you .
you could probably find out that during the solar player lot of other shit is happening including earthquake and volcano and your home computer and your cell phone and your cable tv are all messed up .
and i think sound ha a great deal to do with that a . that reminds me of this clip sam two thousand and eighteen .
this is december two thousand and eighteen .
and i remember it .
i will shoot a heaven with three quarter of star in his tail thats speaking .
anyway that and i remember this wa happening and an opacity is there .
and within minute the medium wa all over this say and blown transformer a transformer .
do not pay any attention .
but they are not acknowledging whats going on .
you can not miss that .
youve got to say something .
boy they are winning on tv .
i remember this pic very .
ive seen it a few hundred time .
i have a copy of it .
and i never swallowed the full entire what this wa .
and i am highly tempted to still go .
i am torn in two direction .
it is either the eye on tail off the face of a satin or it is the star destroyer all illuminating in front of the long box cube .
what ? .
ive never seen anything that since .
there i wa i wa going to be direct .
and the only thing that could illuminate this with that many dot is the green asteroid and that is not the green asteroid. . and it and i i am torn .
fifty forty five of me say it is at the michelle amoon eye on tail somehow and some odd illumination .
and the other fifty fifty five go to those are the star destroyer offloading around the long box cube and they are being eliminated from underneath .
because of the randomness of it especially the one two three four five six over to the there. . and if you blow that up i can make it bigger .
and what i am looking at here one second .
they do look very triangular .
they do .
and i never wanted to go there because i couldnt i couldnt care between the saturn jellomoon eye on tail and or asteroid or star destroyer .
but i i am more prone to star destroyer parked around the long box cube .
it is we try to go through the option of what it could be what we based on what weve seen in the past based on what we know is where .
and this one always i wa never completely comfortable with what i am looking at .
and yes the green area is bottom illuminated core of planet nepacity and it is glowing .
and wa during a solar burst the bottom of the planet will pulsate and glow in from the stellar material .
it is the aurora borealis on our north pole but thats the aurora borealis on the southern pole of planet nepacity .
and everybody know that the planet ever since the second star got here all of a sudden there been hexagon and aurora at the pole both north and south pole of saturn and uranus and venus and jupiter and mercury and earth .
weve had glowing crown and a growing glowing south pole .
and of course they are not showing you those picture .
yeah thats a fawn .
look at that .
longbox cube and the texas cube parked next to each other .
the longbox is in front and the much bigger texas cube is behind it .
that blow me away .
what doe that mean when they park next to each other ?
or is that happens to be the out view ?
or are they that close ?
or is it invasion time ?
and i do not want to go there .
look at the side orb .
look at that .
my gosh that is clean a day .
there is no doubt about it .
alls under the criterion doesnt it ?
and we know the ship .
and that video that i do not know which one of you guy made the et video .
the excerpt of me going hey guy by the way ets here .
by the way guy ets here .
thank you afon for showing u more evidence .
thank you patrick .
also thank you patrick .
thank you .
it is good to see you again too .
i wa watching at some thing and it is been a few month .
good to see you patrick .
appreciate that .
i wonder what they being up on these big massive intergalactic square craft i wonder what their view of u is looking down on her and it is probably vacation to them .
we get to go to another planet and see new thing .
hey it is ricolette .
thank you .
thats nice .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you .
did that ?
look at that .
hello lead asteroid .
let go back .
let go back .
yeah these are both those two video are both from afon and now the eaves .
thats it is atom yellow moon is the dark area and then the light blue behind it is it is atom .
and there the lead asteroid .
this is a couple of day ago .
this is a week ago .
thats crazy .
i want to pull your drawing set .
except for going the opposite direction of what weve ever seen it before .
yeah this is going downward but that one coming in from the which is what which is whats most gruey about the lead asteroid being way way out .
and there are time i want to call it it own planet .
there time i want to say it is a moon .
but that is the second object up in that drawing or the or the cartouche of king david pointing his finger up into the sky warning people .
he pointing to it .
he telling you they are coming .
i know if you look at that picture that way but thats the object that is the second icon up with the little tail behind it .
because originally when it got here the lead asteroid wa thats why we call it the lead asteroid because it wa in front of everything .
thats what we saw first .
and then after a while we realized hey look there dark blob behind these object in the object cluster group .
and thats when we went shit those are planet .
and then it it escalated from there going you get god you can see you can blow it up .
and that wa two thousand and nine to two thousand and eleven .
that photo should be making worldwide news a far a i am concerned .
it is an absolute absolutely .
people should be tracking it all over the place and seeing where it is all the time .
that could be on time news .
how come it is not ?
i am going to go through the trail of it again there. . i wa going to say do that sam ?
it look it is moving in front of our eye there .
look at that .
which say which tell you asteroid because asteroid leave the trail behind them and planet do not .
now planet leave ion spiral behind them through their pathway especially famously inificity because it is such a small planet that it doe have an interaction between the larger planet in our planet and it creates this illumination ion cloud piggy tail a it drop a it move .
we saw that year ago .
we havent seen that recently because i had to do with angle of light and all that versus the sun .
now yeah thats the site of yuri there .
that is the side of his atom or yeah or no that might be the city coming over and in front .
i do not know there there a planet there .
there a thats thats awesome those are not those are not our cloud those cloud are not in our atmosphere .
look at the size of them hello all you space cruiser up there look at all of those star destroyer i know david one of bond material various people on facebook .
yeah on in there in our group people that were in the group yeah yeah look at those those are object those are planet guy .
this is this is uk yeah this wa in the uk yesterday yeah this week ha been bizarre it is been the cloud open up at certain time and all this crazy stuff it look see the of a surface out tipped axis .
thats you wow great ?
and in the stripe we see the gas thats the same a the base cloud of yuri the picture before this one this one i can not go back .
this one .
i have to look back yeah thats the base cloud of your coming in from the last tip tack .
they are not our cloud .
they are angled whereas yuris are horizontal but at two are good .
what fit stay and only through all of this participation from member around the world were we able to get to the stage we are today ?
yeah it is taken what fifteen year almost we are gon na be april april next year. . yeah .
yeah april night .
believe it or not here is a video clip april night .
ill remember that let see i saw this on tiktok and to me this stood out a symbolism for the long box cube .
let me know what you all think .
here we go i am what is that and why is he on this ginormous ?
yeah i do not know .
i am sending a message. . thats justin timberlake concert i sting off the top of the long rock cube .
how interesting thats how they send message .
i wonder what the word to the song are did have a side orb ? .
i thought that wa different yeah that is strange that is very symbolic .
why would he be why would the angle chip it that ?
yeah why not have a flag horizontal safe ?
could you imagine if that thing dropped on the audience ?
my gosh yeah this is not me .
they always have them in city center shape of black cube or anything but the long box cube anywhere that .
thats the first time ive ever seen anything .
look at look at the look at the hot look at some jewish sec religion said that i have a little cube stuck on their forehead .
and if you are out there and you are a sleuth and you want to study what the el sam often is saying this week and whats he hinting about go look that up who were the magi to the greek ?
the oracle and the delphi and all of that look into that because the greek knew we had two star .
yeah there is much to the gin and they are there are other creature we could talk about skin walker .
what do you got for u there rebecca ?
before i know my god can you believe people are throwing their garbage on the ground upset .
it is it make me sick because what can you do ?
what can one do ?
it is breaking down .
it is getting in our food .
yeah thats thats a weird one .
yeah do not get me started on how much pico material we touch around the world from other our family and people around u austin hand yeah god for real david and patrick .
it is the it is the bacteria and the dirt in mexico and anybody who anybody who life in mexico know that and twice a year you take antibiotic period because you have to i i am amazed that we are out of the cave for god ?
i am amazed that there no eleven.nine billion of u on this planet all pian and poop and then throwing our garbage in the street .
it is sickening i wish you would all go away .
we can not we can not we can not say somebody else doe thats whats wrong everybody said i am not responsible .
we are all of u are this is why i always say be excellent excel in what you do do not be what everybody else is yes nicole human never did own earth we were it wa owned .
it wasnt owned when we were first put here but then that boil down to when we were first because we are not what we used to be we how can you go across that ?
we are originally made this way for a reason and our can you imagine how long how many million of year it took u to learn to use our hand ?
our hand or our left hand a a a far a evolution and skill and the stuff that that we run off of and when we think about people in five hundred dc are are are those people caveman ?
advantage of by con artist and hacker and my god .
what what world do we live in ?
what have we become ?
now we can not go back we can not go back in yesteryear .
we did not have that because now we have the problem the question is what do we do with it ?
how do we react and how do we change it ?
i do not there a flag word a through abuse and they couldnt take it anymore .
i want to say my thing because i am cool thats not why i am doing this because this is very uncomfortable for me we were talking about before the show in the green room i every show i do and i am in a couple .
ive done a couple hundred interview or podcasts or mixed all together whatever you want to call it and i am still nervous every time every show and the the the the important thing is the message .
thats why we are doing this because these are real .
we wouldnt be this accurate .
you can not fake this shit and it is happening and nobody see it .
it is youve got it .
you do not see that .
you what i see cloud .
no open your mind hey open your mind quade and that came from that mark movie with arnold schwarzson .
they go .
what wa that ?
yeah recall little recall .
yeah open your mind quade yeah and thats the thing you got it .
they take twenty twenty five second please hold on and they do a scan of your system and then you never get to talk to a human being at all unless you are trying to cancel your service or something .
i do not know what it take to talk to them he got to keep telling the operator .
i want to speak to an agent or something that .
this one is that nice one yeah the green part is the opacity the entire green area .
it is .
whoa i couldnt decide what is that sam ?
ive seen that on video that round this is a screenshot from the video but how old is that video ?
how old is the video ?
let me see if i can find it .
wow where on the of the tree on the hand side of that whole big dark area if you look at those pockmark those are moon crater here another one .
there is that stripe .
it is there i can even blow it up even bigger here .
there it is .
there it is .
my god and it is prominent at sunset and it is huge now and ive said it doesnt time before weve never seen isatum a close to u ever before on their first original approach two thousand and fifteen sixteen seventeen and then exiting in eighteen nineteen etc .
and then coming back toward u in two thousand and twenty one twenty two twenty three etc this is the closest weve ever seen a satum the satums yellow moon and every day is new .
it is awesome awesome and my god some of those picture last week and that big red thing and everybody in the middle east and and the mediterranean and and and jordan and saudi arabia .
they are getting these orange shot and and all these beautiful red sky and everything and it is very intense very insane now the picture on the top left is a week before this drawing on the bottom left but that is whats going on a ?
i did not use that drawing in my head .
although i do i do think that is one of the best drawing or the best picture capture weve gotten in a very long time .
this is the upper one or excuse me upper left one .
thats an awesome awesome shot of a satum a shallow moon in front of a satum and then on top of it lead asteroid is also there and i hadnt even imagine that when i saw that picture and now that we see that comparison .
yes a a matter of fact it is there .
maybe maybe the skull asteroid going to be red and scary invisible in the sky wouldnt that be cool ?
well put in our requisition for that or here now writing it down on paper mailing it to the maybe mailing it to the space god .
this is my request october 31st .
id to see a very large very massively huge red skull asteroid visible of the world to see in the wind god wouldnt that be cool ?
yeah it is fascinating four series of video and fourteen year worth of work and thousand and thousand of sighting over hundred of thousand of sighting over fourteen year million of sighting .
it is wormwood and i did not go there for year because i did not want to freak out any little old lady and where would the destroyer coming in ?
yeah guy this shit real and these are damn close and and wormwood the destroyer or the dragon because it is the year of the dragon thats why it is the year of the dragon because it is sticklyclimatching reality thats in the last eight zero year .
anyway and this is all real and it is all real .
it is all real .
it is all real yeah look at the light cut off and yet on the left hand upper picture you are seeing this look a blue sky to me but why is the sun doing that ?
look it is got laser beam blue light coming at it .
i these are some of the best one the best picture the best of the best yeah this is of course this this is satan jala moon being illuminated here in this shot good and this is .
that is that is a massive massive sky filler and you should have seen the never ruin two thousand and twelve .
it wa still huge and yet it wa far away and i am sitting here watching it out in my front yard i am going there .
look at that .
it is there .
it is real and and the the sad thing is there many people missed out on the early year my god you guy have missed wow there an early one too .
this is what i do not know the year on this one look at that .
no this is two thousand and twenty two and that is a very rounded is satum and then a much smaller satum yellow moon and along the way there and there a couple of star destroyer or the middle yeah look at that yeah wow upper top up there .
there a couple star destroyer yeah and they are there .
look the stripe of yuri or you look on the hand side .
yeah yeah but still there the lead asteroid the lead asteroid is that little white blip next to the f for the the loop of of the of the watermark on that picture where it say two thousand and seventeen five that white blip is the lead asteroid .
wow and yeah and this again. . this is year later .
there a planet there .
there a planet there and it is rounding these planet the same thing again .
yeah wow yuri is very excuse me nepecity is a very small planet .
they they also they cut that they cut the sharing of the link .
you couldnt share the link after a while .
i am it is cop drop time off drop number one recall yeah i wa gon na add to robs question .
the internet it is been scrubbed there used to be video i wa trying to find one now but at least four year ago .
china went completely dark .
dark three of the afternoon and it wa darkest night it is on it is and russia had an episode maybe two thousand and nineteen somewhere in there .
yeah we had we had it up here in montana .
wow we had it did not go completely dark .
it is not nearly you try to find the video they are gone .
yeah it is very hard to find the video .
yeah the last time i looked for them here what i had to do i went to google because youtube tick tock .
yeah and you can go to dark dark go a i think i had my video ready .
remember that video wa trying to show you all yep clear sky let see if it work this time wait let do this one first .
sam can you explain whats happening here ?
i have people asking here whats going on ?
i hope they are not filming through glass .
thats my first thing i do not know if they are filming yeah but if not question is are they filming through their auto window screen ?
i think i saw i think they said they were in a park somewhere it look they are outside walking their baby or something that or their child is holding me now i am looking at the street .
boy thats keep moving people buy tripod yeah definitely they are on your plan man .
they are the same size and i am gon na scream glass double yeah now that white dot next to the moon we can talk about that that could be multiple dot .
i do not i have to relook that up but yeah .
wa it two month ?
yeah it is it is for fifty six day or something that .
i thought lense flare or whatever moved yeah when you have similar size that scream and now they do not they do not have the same intensity .
you want to see what jillian caught ?
yeah let pull that up here .
yes here we go a little shiny nose riddle look at that lovely orange wow you look at that if you turn that upside down thats a surface but it is our moon .
it is behind our moon .
how can something be that big ?
because they are it is that big behind our moon .
yeah these are very large planet and we are these tiny we are we are this tiny little rock earth we are not even a water type planet .
we are a rock type planet and the fact that we are covered in water is by luck .
yeah look at that asteroid yeah i can not i can not tell where the sun is coming from if i can not tell you which one that is but yeah that could easily be the red out whats the time to the of that ?
look somethings coming out of the middle but then when you look at it it for a little bit longer you can tell very cool yeah it wa weird .
now above a dead center would be above would be the bottom of that too that is the side of urie there with the tan asteroid and the other asteroid to the left of the sun yeah my ring doorbell cool cool look at that .
you are one of them rich people. ?
you got one of them ring doorbell i do not have any none of that technology you do not have you one then remember no my cave doesnt come with them up here in my montana cave i got a bear skin and stone knife man .
look at that that of course is the side of a satium satium jello moon that bear is of course the stripe of urie with the asteroid coming in from the upper left going down to the center you could see the shadow line .
look at that beautiful look at that one .
yeah weve asked at the jello moon and satium all on the everything else on the left the tim is probably cutting in in the back view here up to the left of the upper left of the sun .
yeah a little grayish different color circle there and that is the bottom of atu and atus moon and again bottom of atu atus moon .
yeah they were active this week .
you can see it .
you can see the thing thats getting smaller too it is getting smaller you can see it here again there the white of atus moon in front of at purple atu .
thats a band of asteroid there whole cluster of them yeah look at them at the base cloud of urie youve seen that over and over and over and over again ive drawn it a hundred time yeah it wa making the animal i heard a bird .
no i am joking yes the goose are are more plentiful this year here .
we saw goose this year .
i havent seen goose in year which is weird for montana because we normally have a lot of goose and there some bonkers we are going bonkers under these great big planet i am sure that all the animal are feeling it .
you i am sure can see these planet i i can not even imagine what they would be thinking maybe they have an education who know look at the purple .
do big foot ha stool and teacher .
who know ?
where do they live ?
look how it started to glow thats no that wa tonight i could have sworn you did you say something about big fit having teacher ?
yeah i said big foot have school and and and and teacher thats what i thought you said .
hey class one hundred and one one hundred and one or not look at this look at the wishful and ancestral knowledge my gosh thats the bottom of that .
do after these moon .
thats i can not see that i am sure their parent teach them see that you have nothing but alone time .
i bet they home school i bet they home .
yeah i bet they do too you are a bunch of jubiles boy thats thats these moon there .
this is the center yeah you can see the moon .
wow in the upper corner they are gray blue yeah look at it .
i think i am not sure which one it is .
wa it i do not think it is that it is thats no it is not that one .
i can no maybe i did not get it because i do not see it in your i god where did i post it ?
let me go back to see where i posted it grab you a copy of it .
i think i posted it on sky watcher one i yeah i see it .
i do not know why it is not there .
let me get it ill put it there wait it say there .
sorry guy here sorry there it is .
ive lived here for twenty two year .
i do not own the land yeah renting on my lot and he got a problem with his plumbing and i i need to not say too many thing in case somebody would hear this show ill leave it at that .
it wa callous and it put u through a lot of help and it wa very expensive very expensive and even my kid havent even recovered from it .
they still talk about it anyway back to the sky back to the sky .
i went and checked my sky to see to see if there anything out there .
nothing. . here my video though .
this is an example of what my sky look for a month now i am let sit here .
yeah i do not know .
you can see it there .
they are building it .
yeah my favorite spot is there two lot .
there two lot and one of them is all it doesnt matter even if there an empty lot beside it .
there gon na be all this traffic for people craving chick filet ive never had wow they do not have chick filet in vega i they do .
i got you. . i did not even know what that is .
obviously chicken whatever chicken sandwich a their thing but they have everything else chicken whatever anyway yeah they are taking my my viewing spot away .
ill figure out somewhere else to go .
it is tough being in downtown it is they do not many open spot thats perfect it wa thats two block from my house anyway thats yeah it is a bummer nicole .
thats how i feel ive been yeah i do not have much of a southwest view at all because weve got a mountain in the way but my my south view is good .
if i leave my house and then if i go into missoula then you can it is a big valley you can see pretty much everywhere and i do occasionally at walmart sit there and do the parking lot three hundred and sixty and stand there and go .
wow and people look at me i am weird but but then i am weird there is a video .
i named it random oddity .
thats what i put on there it is some clip that i have found that i thought were odd .
let see what they i do not remember whats on it it is been a while it is not all bottom of urie yeah here is not that grumpy there ?
yeah it is being illuminated and it is after sunset .
thats the bottom of urie being shined on it is in space .
what are we gon na do ?
i wa not going to but that is a rocket that is a rocket yeah spiral do not the the direction change spiral and it is spiraling .
yeah thats a rocket i that look an eye on tail illumination off the bottom of planet that too wow look at that .
hey whats that ?
maybe it is a light show .
yeah id say light show i weird it is flat up top must be cut off above by something in the way and then the question is is that the red asteroid going in front of the sun ?
see how the white light green blue the top of the sun is being visually out view cut off cropped on the top by planet seru wow that is crazy .
thats a good one in it .
wow nice i havent seen this one yet either .
i hadnt seen pretty surprising either usually when something hit this it is everywhere .
yeah yeah yeah i am eighty seven people posted it .
yeah yeah i found this on facebook .
i found this on youtube is i wa wondering if that wa the ion tail what did this thing in front of u here ?
nice itll get back .
boy thats it lead asteroid now above the boat going downward drawing and the ion tail is the white one at the horizon further to the thats the ion tail there it is flattening out because it is close it is close to our earth atmosphere .
it is absolutely flattening out on our upper atmosphere thats the ion it look flat that .
look at the green there and hi there in the past city yeah the opacity is there and then at two and at two moon are to the but the green is substantially shown i am very boy .
look at that .
thats the red asteroid again .
yeah we know that one .
hey sam pretty .
yeah i i now saw this question from wendy and about that asteroid in front of the sun with a flat on top she is asking how do that it wa saru ?
is that from a viewing ?
this is the base plate of asatoms yellow moon being illuminated from underneath lovely .
thats a normal tornado .
this is where the planet do not crash into each other they electrically repel look at that .
look at that red i yee look at that i wonder if it is a base cloud close pas from his satum .
look at that .
id never seen that before wow sir one two three thats a very angry looking it is nail foot bottom of that two bad two moon it is a pixie slipper .
yeah yep or a slimy little snail foot and bubbly bubbly look how orange that is thats a satum yellow moon and his satum and the long box cube is in there or something .
is that the space tube up close ?
look at that tube thing .
there an example look the whole everythings dark and it is not sunset yet it is an hour look at this .
it is not very visible i am thinking two thousand and twenty one yeah thats about that wa when nepecity wa dead center at the time .
look how gorgeous up that is beautiful underneath the bottom of urie again with weird gaseous formation of of asteroid and bubble it could never be a real sam .
it look that we dog handle bar thing ive seen that coming towards u in south africa little dog handle bar thing nothing those are not thats not within our atmosphere .
this is the atmosphere of a close passing planet and if you look at the sky there no cloud on the even on the horizon that wa a double the double rainbow mean there two sun doesnt it ?
yep amazing yeah i seen that above u during storm ashley a when larger one smaller i stared these for year and i kept going .
it is the only reason there a dark ring in the middle because normally a rainbow wouldnt do that now look for your pot of gold indeed i see weve lost rebecca .
i see weve lost christopher yeah we are all alone sam i am used to it shes back i am here .
i had to take care of what my son brought me something to eat .
i am lucky you i had he wa taste it taste it but i have to somebody cook for me .
somebody should come and bring me something .
man i know they are taking such good care of me .
they do cut off halo not a sundog you made me hungry now because now i am thinking about my stomach again .
i know he did a good job he made roast and baked potato .
thats normal normal normal normal normal .
yeah thats normal. . yeah thats normal although the planet behind it is not but there not an effect of the planet doesnt affect that that rising cumulus nimbus cloud now here again another another example of lead asteroid yellow .
thats ended that wa it. . all hammer .
yeah i wa reading all the comment .
david ha some of these video who i said dave wa lucky .
yeah for me for once i hope that be not .
man i have to do all the when your girl get older they can go in the kitchen and well start .
and when i wa a teenager hell that wa a meal a couple of coaks and a whole bag of doritos .
yeah that too steaky bacon sausage 80 scone egg bean thats an interesting combination david yeah i i have they are not even cooking here yet .
i am pizza night and all of that thank you tara he talking about tatty scone now .
he had to say there were tatty scone .
i havent had that for a while i do not even know what that is it is yummy .
youve got that got ta visit scotland and well give you beef on toast or something that no it is a triangle .
let show you .
i know what a scone is but what what what do you call it tatty ?
tatty is a tatty is a potato a tatty .
a tatty or a tater scone a tatty .
those a they say on on lord of the ring or the hobbit tatos .
thank you and i got the picture now tara ill get those added .
well see those in a moment look yummy .
my how you are making look christopher is outside .
i got look at that boy. . let take this down .
let give him the floor .
look at that hey look my baby went to my baby went to nevada .
look my sky the other day yeah ill hang on a second jillian and ill show you his next .
it wa puppy wow it is looking pretty wild .
there some yes somethings about the bed .
what wa happening too ?
look at how it is spreading out somethings smack on top and then there something definitely passing way overhead look at that you can see it .
yeah do you guy see this rainbow prism here ?
picture i see a whole lot of ion draggy thing .
yeah i am getting signal that i am being cut off you sound better yeah i my my picture stalled it is it is locked up wow send it my way chrissiper send it to oklahoma. . yes .
go to your left a little bit .
there a shadow .
i see it there ill get away from the tree in a second .
is that the long box cube sitting there ?
we are not alone that ever asked question .
man thanks school .
this is incredible big school it get a little old i do not want everybody cube there .
look there to the left of the sun .
there there a square immediately to the left a bunch of thing are they were next to each other .
holy shit .
there there a there a big star destroyer there too i believe you this is fun .
boy thats obvious my gosh thats crazy and i do not know .
is that the tiny skull asteroid sitting there ?
there a straight line straight above the sun yeah and at the top of that little short straight line it look the the skull asteroid .
we saw the long box cube arrived .
we saw the empire orab arrive we watched when all of a sudden there wa space tube being cited around the world they are here .
they are here .
they are it is the horton hears a who we are here .
we are here .
yeah thats got ta be at two moon in front of you guy probably in front of an opacity but and you are but yeah i am saying is they are all there .
yeah all around the sun both side and and straight up yes look how much the texas cube ha changed since rebecca saw it first yep you can see it now .
wow boy wave at him shoot wow terra .
yes i do too boy yeah it doesnt change much but week after week after week small variation a time go by wow and we are not making this stuff up .
they are different faction there lot of visitor here now it is one thing if they look u but what happens when one that doesnt look u is it gon na be too it is .
i do not want to mess with time or or inform these people anything .
there a whole definition to them .
this is why i do the monthly site drawing everybody get the opportunity to but we are in between slide .
is not this normal ?
back in school when they the slide projector or the end of the video but it did did did did did did did did did did did did did did did start flapping around the reel i there we are back i think one of those thing that operate .
you are a black dog and why ?
why hang on ill be back .
wow we are suffering technical difficulty .
please stand by i got my ear are ringing .
i can almost talk i am gon na give you the wave of ringing ear .
wow all i want to do is eat today yeah yeah i feel you jillian sorry i keep stuffing shit in my mouth now i it is sam fault .
yeah i know not you doing the crisp i know it is now i have an excuse to drink soda yep i i paid for last week show .
i only had two coat but all i wa going for afterwards .
it wa amazing it wa hilarious but amazing me and carbonation do not get along too i am probably why i stopped drinking coax year ago .
i only added at work you pour a little bit of a coke .
you do not drink a whole one that is not your beer in yours either the note get it make you have pain or stomach issue and then you have it and then two day later you are drinking it again .
yeah you got a problem win you might be in a fault .
i am joking i can not see can chris ?
i see his hand i am i do not see anything .
thats i am not i do not see anything not having too much luck tonight shame his his square is blank .
i see i see this guy that he pointing the picture at and we see some smaller stuff going around in there .
yeah thats wild .
the cube is yep definitely you can see it and then the long box cube it is wild it is getting better and better can you imagine if we are supposed to go go viral ?
i know wouldnt that be fun ?
god it would be amazing .
no all press is good press meanwhile he going copy of his album and making money .
because you are at least you are relevant if they are talking about you you are relevant .
see shoot and they are sorry go ahead chris .
i wa saying anybody can write an article about me saying i live in a hyperbaric chamber or something that show yall .
i wonder what they think wow it is huge .
i do not know if you are in mountain time or not two hour ahead of me .
wow. . hey be cope cope he here .
yeah anyway but at this time of day people rushing home .
they are trying to get dinner you are watching the five oclock news and sitting down and they are not outside looking around i think dinner to wait yeah yeah look what you are getting .
thats the cube there .
you can not argue with it that dark blue thing there .
wow it wa terrible .
thats very edge .
yeah no pan is in make the shot draw back up any on your video .
are you pulling back a far a you can go ?
i think thats about it ?
yeah you are not zoomed in i see now you can wave because they are over the top of you ?
yeah wow could you imagine ?
i think ill probably come back around sunset well see what happens. . it get crazy out here during sunset yeah let see what time it is four or five it is about five four oclock you are two hour ahead. . yeah .
thats great .
i think about six thirty now yeah well come back out see how what happens i can not wait .
somebody landing down putting on a crap you jiggle up in your little lander which is the disc one with the window .
yeah and you go flying up there and land on the ship and kick it would take you day to walk around on those thing they are they are that big yeah i do not think you could even tour the entire thing .
it is trying to walk the pyramid it is the state of california flying over your head .
we saw all of these and of course i drew some picture back then and fighter craft docking station .
i do not know there numerous numerous earth faction and then there numerous numerous space faction and then i am sure that there are multiple faction that live on the nibburu and the and the seru a it is it is immense .
whats going on and taking place it seems where we are the most sheltered bee out there what ?
it is somebody pulled me plucked me up and stuck me on a planet .
i do not understand it feel that of course .
i have been hiding for quite a while it is entirely possible that it is me not them but from my cave up here in montana .
yeah i see something we were talking about a minute ago wa how if they are talking about you even negatively they are still talking about you .
it reminded me it reminded me of these article .
i found talking about my yeah what happened ?
now look at this now this ha three hundred and thirty onezero follower and there people are trying to claim there two son and it go on to talk about my facebook group look at that .
this is back in april yay we are hitting the bigger medium target there that group .
and then here another channel bro .
bible one.one million follower and recall on his name whatever .
i wa confused .
here the name of the group again .
look at that .
no there no you talk about yeah and then this hope we go by twenty two twenty two million follower in this particular publication and here we go again incredibly desperate they are desperate and here we are again .
i dare you please go try go try and then we watched the planet for a decade since and the we know these planet are real weve been watching them get bigger .
weve done drawing of them .
we know where they are where they are in yeah that big blue thing you are looking at is a planet the original sky color is orange yellow everything above the orange yellow is a close passing planet it is not simple way bigger than your brain can handle .
halloween and id to get a nice package together for my child because doing this take up all the spare money that we have and we do not have a lot .
we live off of fixed income keep those card and letter and donation coming in people and of course well well give you the opportunity to see where to send those through later where are we on video ?
let see i have a video for alexander i i do not see him here today but we can still play his video of course you want to do that ?
yeah sure work for me .
otherwise there we have option .
i have something for hey zoo and he going to be here today i do not know when but he said he would definitely be here do not hurry if you are listening to the show a zoo strives safely and carefully .
yeah for sure .
yeah let do alexander video here and while while we are talking about shout out .
i hope jason from lolo truck stop is watching again .
he said he wa gon na try and watch our show again this week and let hope he did get do that .
yeah no way you got his shout out again wow look at that that feature where it pan around that .
i see thats boy .
i love it when it doe that i do not know which planet that is it is a planet rotating .
it is something is .
yeah rotating bottom of the planet and you can see the light change .
is it round that big ball ?
is it solid ?
my screen is stalled yep is it stalled for you guy ?
yeah i am stalled .
yeah i stop we are fine .
i will not play it .
yeah we got ta we have to difficulty have to i know it is not even halfway through. . let get alexander video here well see what happened in germany this week let see find it do not say it is the path .
i wa reading that package trying to figure out what it said .
sorry hollings weird i do not see it .
here is some picture though from carol an carolina i have a little little slideshow week shes been busy lady they are creating something that is absolutely amazing clever and it wa her birthday .
yeah that look the spiral turning is this old is this two thousand and twenty one i am looking at i this is from this week i . is your thing is he shared this ?
thats it carolin is this week i what up see what the date is .
i am confused .
sorry no worry .
shes shared it in my career .
that is the den asteroid that center and there again up into the upper circle left of top of the picture .
thats the den asteroid a in front of the side of urie and this is the salamander asteroid group coming in our face .
it is at u audrey this is of course on the hand side this would be the bottom of the set the messa jello moon and possibly the long box keep somewhere in there .
we know it is there back again .
yeah thats cool .
when a for this once a week ?
it is one one day away ?
yeah to them .
it is never any is this eighty five or eighty six ?
eighty five .
yeah i wa today because i told i said to show eighty five two more and we break sam record .
i can not say for sure .
and i spent all week long prepping for the next show and by the time we got done with the last show after show .
we were excited .
we wanted to do two show .
we couldnt get enough of it but some of u do nine and ten hour long show now .
there no way or or i might say some of my most favorite show were the tuesday night show i do not know why i there wa something about nighttime i do not know .
yeah we were in different mood to me .
it wa a whole different vibe .
it wa i liked it well have to do a night show at least a few time a year we could do that one throw in one extra show .
i do not know maybe not i thought it wa fun but it is more work .
ill add you take personal check money order cash whatever whatever you are safe or comfortable sending to you p.o .
it is rare that we get donation anymore and theyve dropped off this which is very very and because i did not mind i put but listen for since two thousand and seventeen till this year two thousand and fourteen i never asked for anything .
i never asked for any money i put all of the money into it myself every year every month .
i wa putting in over hundred dollar of all the fee .
yeah i did not mind .
i looked at it a my hobby .
it wa fine and i did it no big deal .
it is a big deal .
it is been a big deal for a few month now yeah it is my whole world ha flipped upside down and i am saying i i can not afford it i could for and thank you .
thank you this is made possible from viewer you you guy have to you guy have to help this lady out because she work hard and then do i this letter you get one back it is a lot of work .
it ha been day getting ready for this show there day i spent six to eight hour in front of the computer and then there day i i do not even turn it on i walk away going .
it is that doesnt faze most people .
i do not know it is .
i bought up today .
my a bottle of sauce is seven dollar .
ketchup is running five now .
it is scary mustard is yellow mustard is still cheap .
i only another expensive hamburger again and those thing i used to be able to take the kid there for twenty five dollar .
now we are looking at forty it is that is rare .
yeah sorry i forgot .
yeah it is twenty thirty .
no problem. . it go by fast keep telling nice bedtime story and ill be able to doze off. . it is i did not sleep properly this week it is it is weird yeah i i had we do weird sleep pattern .
a lady wa offering bag of dvd i got two great big bag of dvd or see the dvd .
it wa cool .
yeah youll enjoy it .
it is very very it is left field .
youll enjoy it yummy yes and there xmen i think a and a whole bunch of other interesting stuff .
i wa grateful yeah i got ive got a dvd tv i can use that there you go yeah i am a waiter .
ill point now though good night wendy hello .
hey sir .
sorry dude all go to the bed .
i know my people thank you love you guy .
yeah yeah bye bye wink you need help she did it .
yay shes out figured out and thank you .
hell be here shortly i can not wait i have a little clip of his that he sent to me .
he want to show everybody can not wait yes and thank you for your donation too .
hey zeus donated christopher donated .
appreciate you wow you want it .
let show alexander video we can see what germany look this week .
itll let me i think i have it ready this time it look good .
here we go hey it is locking up on me i do not know if it is moving forward yeah i could be what i am sometimes it is a stall for me mine been doing that too locking up .
mm i the music remember look at the dark area first there a light cut in coming in off the that is the red asteroid going horizontally from upper to lower left .
look at that in front of at these moon we are seeing direction of the asteroid moving in way we have never seen them before they are coming from the upper and going leftward .
wow thats interesting thats unusual i would bet money that is long box cube related .
i bet thats the side orb with a dragoff cloud ?
it should be where my tim is somewhere in there should be my tim that should be my tim there .
you are looking at the back shadow of thats why it is darker i wonder what he ha there that the moon ha been sighted next to the sun recently during the day and at sunset be prepared for that .
but i thought it wa on the hand side that would be where the side of urie would be there .
thats why it is dark there is urie dark dark dark area at sunset .
yeah it wa keep going and move .
yeah and bright that .
wow yeah shimmering it is rolling tumbling hot thats hot it is not what it is .
it is sunlight shining underneath after sunset and it is being illuminated because it is semiclosed i do not know .
yeah they are hard to find i do not people will buy them up off the shelf .
theyll empty the shelf to get them on a scale of one to ten it wa a twelve .
it wa all i could do is put a little cover over my head and try to sleep now were you drinking red wine or having any other sulfide or nitrate ?
no did you have a different dietary thing that you normally do ?
no wa your back out ?
were you sitting screwy on the couch ?
i know why it happened .
yeah emotional pressure yeah .
you are still going to be some of that i am still dealing with my family loss .
we hear we lost a family member recently she passed away on and on and it yeah i i thought that id be better by now but i am not sorry it is tough is not it ?
yeah it is not it is not but it is doing it is you got to be kidding me ? .
yeah yeah even the kid have started speaking a little bit more about it .
originally they did not say much at all .
andreas cannabis .
i said that off the cup .
i wasnt asking asking for anything .
i wa saying yeah i wish i had a camera he a professional line .
look at that line .
they were also sob citizen sovereign citizen .
that wa i i laughed through that whole episode i wa going .
either follow them or you do not and thats enough political five minute of jargon .
let go back to whatever i guess what guess what i see people in our green room we are not alone zan .
we are not alone anymore .
i see christopher is back and hey zoo is ready .
let them talk for a while .
yeah here christopher .
hey he made it back .
you got a nice sunburn you look red but yeah all in here yeah and here is hey zoo everybody .
hey there hi everybody hello sam everybody in the audience .
i see we have a nice little crowd going are you sure ?
i sure do it is been a good show already .
thats i ive been trying to give my sleeping because it is been a long week but today i slept away on my extra time .
ill be on for a little while but then i am gon na have to go i did get a few hour of sleep .
i guess thats not bad thats good .
yeah a long a you are safe whats that sam ?
all a long a you are safe yeah yeah of course of course yeah it is a big part of it when when you are driving you do not want to be that short on sleep ?
probably not a good idea but hi audrey .
when i posted recently where it wa two of them you said that the spiral asteroid spiral because it is two of them ?
concentric orbit i i caught something very similar but it is on the wrong side of the sun .
i might i do not know .
i i want you to check it out because i i do not think youve seen it on on facebook because you havent commented on that is it one that you sent me ?
yeah i sent i i sent you three video .
they sent you let go ahead and get him we can talk about it .
let see youve been youve posted some cool stuff the other day and chris you had a great day .
i wa i am jealous i those day are awesome .
those day are crazy now is it i i saw a little bit earlier .
i opened my eye and then i i put the show on i i saw you were outside but i that wa back off to sleep .
i know how that is thats a good feeling .
why is it not there ?
here it is i thats a picture from vega this is i heard you last episode talking about how nostalgic you get about two thousand and eighteen seven add to i am the same way i am gon na have to go with that to being my favorite plan .
i i the opacity but it is a little more destructive than that too .
i am gon na have to yeah wow phenomenal this is a very rare occurrence .
i have not seen anything the like of this since two thousand and eighteen but god it wa awesome to see that .
yeah at two moon wa huge and close for long and and you we couldnt deny the purple in the orange scenario that wa going on .
look at that bubbly bottom that is this is the same thing one of thems in real time .
the other one is time lapse on a different camera but look at that both camera will show you exactly whats happening over the top of you .
it is one of those day where you what the hell man ?
why is nobody seeing this ?
this one recent sam .
this wa i do not know maybe five day ago but if there two there two asterisk one above the other and they are coming in they are coming in from the and headed left are not they ?
yeah yeah i i even recorded the trail that it leaf ?
youll youll see it here shortly but i recorded the trail a it wa a it wa wow i i did not get it till it did not occur to me .
i wa i i took this video and then i sat down outside on my porch and i wa holy crap i think this would be great time to record it and time lapse it and are you sure those are asteroid ?
i do not know what yeah what if we were looking at ive been looking at it for day and i the bottom one is the ion con trail behind the side orb and the one above it is the long box view see here a tight .
here a time lapse .
the trail going by yeah i held my camera for ten minute on my hand there to get that trail .
thats wa why it is a little unsteady .
i know there wa more that wa being thats obvious to there star destroyer in front of the long box cube there a side of the sun. . last time that i took yeah it is not the spiral astral .
gotcha not my last race far there wa a lot of stuff flying around that day .
this wa early on this wa a a thicker spiral they would have a thicker more notable spiral .
youd see the spiral .
i would have not have guessed that i would not have did did a font ?
can you find that again ?
i saw what he posted seven hour ago .
that wa freaking close they are part reach up there and touch it absolutely phenomenal .
yeah this one .
i saw this one .
i see two box there the darker one is the long box in front and the texas cube is behind they are next to each other .
the cube it look long it look two long box cube but it is not .
yes exactly the edge of the long box cube .
i know i i could be a third destroyer .
i could be wrong .
this is the closest ive ever seen yeah we are at the end of one hundred and eighty and they are over the top of u wow absolutely .
they are going by i havent had i the the planet sighting here have not been a prevalent .
it is asteroid that ive been seeing all over the place yeah asteroid look at that .
we are spinning by everyone .
that thing is that lead itll be a clear sky completely clear and then youll have the trail that .
i saw that wa the only the only thing in the sky which is why it drive me nut .
this up on the entire planet did not see this new rebeck .
that is absolutely insane alphonse been catching some great stuff .
yeah andrea you do not do coffee i do not know if we can be friend i am kidding .
i am kidding but yeah i i am obsessed with coffee i i quit all my other bad habit .
i stopped drinking stuff everything but i i hit the coffee hard now yeah i still i am a coffee drinker .
i forgot to show you that when hazus sent me those earring he sent me the sticker too .
i forgot to show the sticker it say here is his little cute guy anyway it say take me to your favorite coffee shop in that cute they had this little coffee shop inside of the convention greatest coffee and the nicest lady .
she wa nice i ended up going to a shop because she say she had a shop .
thats where i got sam coffee cup wa but the greatest people nice friendly everybody when i wa there and i had to get that sticker i wa who drink coffee .
i sam drink coffee and rebecca drink coffee .
i got one of each for you guy something coffee related .
yeah it is too cute i want to say hi to abcd is here abcd good to see you .
glad you are here and i am getting some video picture ready that tara sent me we are gon na see you out here in a moment let see what else i do not i do not understand warm tea .
maybe maybe it is because of different .
i love cold tea sugarfree cold cold tea with much ice i love it .
absolutely love it .
there three thing that i drink .
it is water coffee and iced tea i love it .
and the occasional diet coke but i love tea .
i i do not care when it is warm .
i do not i do not i do not know it loses a lot of it flavor .
maybe it is all in my head .
i have a friend who take me to different restaurant that i would never go to and i am always delighted .
i always have a great time .
god no burn this time i did not throw the pizza on the floor .
it is a good time .
i think thats the one there we go show eighty five everybody .
yeah i the music keep stopping on by itself i got ta say last week they went on for nine hour .
i have to say one of the most enjoyable show that ive seen in a while .
i do not know what it wa .
i flew by it did not fly by day to watch it all to hear it during the work but i wa i do not know .
what is it ?
tara i want to say i love what you bring to the show i am glad that you you bring this is a great vibe to this show and i think you are i think you fit in with the group .
that wa awesome .
yes our last week show wa great .
it wa a great show it wa nice to meet him a put a face to the voice ?
it is nice to have him on too .
that wa it wa a great show and i of course said far too much it is i told too much offworld information .
i wanted there .
you said too much there wa some interesting thing that you touched on and i i want to hear more or at least because i googled a lot of it or some of it and i could have not find nothing on it .
thats an excellent movie .
do you watch it ?
i at least five time i do i i watch that i i watch it every often because i yeah i watch maybe fifty time already a lot .
i think it is fifteen foot by eighteen foot tall or something that or even bigger .
i know it is a very large petroglyph but people see only that photograph of it but that alone every time i look at it .
they are talking about it sam .
they are talking about the cube yeah it is been mentioned a lot more .
i think christ ha posted something on tiktok about the cube and and alexa .
three hundred and thirty three it wa it wa a very close .
it wa it is pretty old .
theyve got this monitor .
thats the worst thing that can happen to you .
no yeah a a matter of fact i can because i sat up on when during a skull surgery when they split the roof of my mouth open and they split my septum .
thats got ta be a crazy yeah to the answer i do not know .
and the sky is looking crazy now .
fifteen minute all can not wait .
ill be back .
can not wait our man on i wanted to ask you before we get off topic here psychologically i think a lot of people and you say this often which i i truly agree .
it is not a easy a take me with you .
no it is not it is but psychologically what did that do to you ?
you you are you are a strong minded person which i think any i think if anybody would be able to handle it be you but i i would imagine even to use something that it is a roller coaster ride .
have you lost your mind and is this something that you got that one ?
i think all of u may maybe i am not on that scale but i think any of u that are here seeing what we see feel on a daily basis .
it is a constant back and forth constant back and forth but the sky always reminds you that no you are not bat shit crazy .
i know that not everybody from my experience and i think everybody will agree here when i first understood this i wa very excited about sharing it with people thinking ill have to do a share it show them this video or this exciting and people will accept it .
in fact the fact that people wouldnt accept it it never crossed my mind .
i i live for those moment whatever come of it is extra because yeah i am enjoying it myself .
ive met some amazing group of people along the way we we have a family here .
we we all see the same thing .
itll drive you crazy i do it out of love out of loving watching the system .
it is god wow how could want to watch that ?
it is the most exciting thing ever yeah thats where i am at .
thats where i am at .
i i accept that not everybodys in acceptance i i post something in hope that we we find another terror another chris another it is such a huge letdown that nasa is not doing their part .
i want to remind everybody here that we we are at the the cutting edge of of of science unfortunately nasa is not come is not forthcoming and and we are the only one doing this .
we have to protect this information .
because anything can happen at any moment where they get to wipe u out .
whats happened to rebecca what your own two account now that have been wiped out ?
and and the more the more thing become obvious .
i think the more they are gon na mess with this because i do feel that they are messing with this ive been on youtube when i saw the our our view count go backwards ive seen that ive seen that .
i wouldnt be surprised if if we have a big asteroid event and people decided blame it on war a war act an act of war on some country because thats why of course though .
yeah of course the line .
yeah the thing is that that we we here here what i think about the difference between some of u here all of u here and most people in the world is that ?
i personally i live up there my mind is constantly thinking up there most people i see their peripheral vision their way of thinking it is all worldly .
it is all down here i do not think any of u lived out here a much a a the rest of the world .
i know you sam i i know most of u walk here with their head up high looking up at the sky constantly worldly thing have lost their appeal .
can you imagine how old your bone and finger would be ?
thats the way it work yeah i i feel you did not miss some stuff but some very cool stuff is about to happen it is happening and it is about to happen .
a they a they move away from whats happening ?
it is time to start looking at everywhere do the three hundred and sixty do not do the the ninety degree on one side ninety degree on the other do the one hundred and eighty look the other direction ?
it is called naviru system sky watcher thats the name of this ive been tagging it in all of my video .
ive been tagging it naviru system sky watcher and he said he almost there .
it is uphill and he a few minute away he sent me a message hey it is me and daddy poteet i think it is how you say that hi welcome .
i do not know if ive seen that name before .
nice but hi i seeing a new name new people .
welcome aboard thats exciting give it some time and he will be amazed at what we have the man other here for you guy it is fun andrea people often ask me why i havent had kid i think it is because i am done .
i think i am not coming back this time .
i am going yeah thats what i tell people it is my last day on earth .
i am i will not reincarnate back here anymore .
i am i am an old soul thats my story and i am sticking with it keep on trucking yeah yeah keep on trucking .
yeah thats an old 70 term .
i i i am in awe that this ha not look at that that miami exciting thing did look how crazy everybody went over that now granted .
nobody even talk about it anymore .
theyll be off the deck .
all of those are repeatedly captured and they match time after time after time and they are not the blob flying around in the sky that we can not identify when we call the oa to uap or ufo .
no we are having direct absolutely close capture from around the world for year now and i am wondering when people are going to either get on board with the fact now granted .
we want to hear your comment there two thing that get the the algorithm going and and one of those main one is comment guy .
it is not the like like how the view help but the comment are what get the algorithm going .
whether they are positive or negative i stopped deleting rude comment on my video because even those help i i ive come to a point where i am a long a you are interacting this push the algorithm to to send this out to more people .
i i i i let i let the hateful comment be i do not even i even respond back to them because it give me an opportunity to comment again i i reply back to the hateful a they are laughing .
ill be i am happy you are happy yourself but yeah positive or negative comment is helpful .
there no such thing a bad publicity a a comment .
it doesnt have to be a big elaborate count comment .
get the conversation going guy .
thats all it is about and then get people talking about this because we need to get people talking about it extra terrestrials are very very very real .
hey chris .
i tried to make it on time .
wow yeah look at that you it is perfect i got some more video of it about two minute ago but it is hard timing .
ive never walked this far up the mountain before wow and i know you do not know i think i know exactly where you are chris i am on the east side of la vega .
yeah i long box cube is there still there yeah it is there .
a lot of thing tricking by my friend .
thats me .
we mean he need a tshirt sam .
we need some of the sky watcher tshirt .
they were good tshirts and they hold up very and they were working easy .
i love them they are simple yeah yeah they were not cheap but they they they are simple and they are different special in gold and yeah they were not the cheapest card stock available .
i promise you that they do not love cheap .
i do not post a lot there but i do stream this i can comment on this instead of sharing my channel .
i know love senior i i needed a this time but i guess maybe next week the next week .
it is it is been it is been a busy month .
i am telling you i slept all day yesterday that is and then you wake up and it is thats my party the phone call or this that is my party chris .
that is my party is what do you do for fun ?
i to sleep that is that is my party but yeah well see you guy next week .
i will be listening a always but yeah unfortunately duty call .
drive careful always have a good night. . see you next week .
bye that went too fast yeah they always do we are at we are at four hour forty seven and there no good reason to do we do not have to be nine hour but it is definitely not three hour .
thank you kenneth .
i wa i have new pain and thing that hurt me that ive never experienced before and it is are you kidding me ?
whats happening crap this is being sixty something .
joy everybody should try this .
it is fun the planet are i am not gon na say they are killing me but boy this is a thing to deal with man .
look the desert .
yeah you found the edge of the ground or the sky you are you were pointing it at the sky but i saw the sand i saw the sand dune .
i think this is probably the best spot i can find there whats that see that i do not know that streak thats curved and coming down is that anything in particular ?
it wa that a little bit more dead center that weird patch there dead center thats where the green asteroid is because it is got a little yeah and that by the way you can see the side of never what ?
yeah going keep going a little bit more no to your to your there .
thats where nabiru is and that this area there .
yeah there a big mountain in the way there wow no it look good finger and everything .
yeah thats there .
there a dark gray dot and thats about the size of what emel seru look .
it wasnt fast but the little moon nana going around concentrically around emel seru and it took a little time but you got to watch it plane this day and land mass in normal cloud this is there .
you are you are getting to a satum yellow moon and a satum at the sun there and then above that you notice how there these striped ray yeah they fan out .
it is red blue red yeah thats thats four or five day now at sunset .
yep that that graduated oval .
yeah here wow where seru is and then in front of seru to farther left is your re and above that and above you is out to an out to moon .
yeah and thats there .
thats that dark blue left corner with the stripe yeah you can see the stripe of urie yep i wish you guy were here because it is it is different when you are outside a opposed to the camera but look how fast it is changed already .
this is crazy yeah it doe it change and i love that you did that series roll in your video because it doe show the rotation and the movement and the and the change of the planet and you hadnt done that before and it is excellent work .
cool yeah ill try to keep doing that and then yeah that look an f16 going down but it is way too big to be an f16 going down there that plot that one little possible .
we got nellis air force base over here yeah but it doesnt move .
my god when that mig went over the valley you could hear it forever how do you own a mig ?
i i how do you get to fly it around populated area ?
yeah i i own a russian airplane it is not a big deal everybody doesnt everybody yeah i am gon na own a mig in in montana and fly it around .
i i have a little bit of money .
yeah no problem where do you get spare part for those damn thing jesus ?
theyve got an f thirty four now and an f thirty nine and all of this crazy shit that you could they got technology wouldnt believe look at that my god look at that there look at that white round .
yeah on that .
yeah there look at that white little dark object that would probably be god is that is that the lead asteroid heading downward with strange wow ?
or is it smaller than the lead asteroid but it definitely look something quite small and asteroid see the little rounded circle around it and you can see there another gosh there an edge that wrap all the way around the horizon .
it is strange is that the side orb of the long box cube ?
that would be nothing of the size for the side orb wed think that lead asteroid would be bigger .
that would have to be there that little c cloud i do not know over to the left of the corner there thats c yeah thats thats see that c yeah is that the side orb in front of the long box cube ?
man i think it the size is the long box cube ha moved since we saw it last from because it wa much more over this is northwest this is west it might have moved .
yeah i i can see two different color of blue you can see the depth there something there something absolutely passing over now .
yeah thats it is at the yellow moon .
then it is over here somewhere no higher up possibly possibly somewhere here go go look a little more upward and then go back to the left to see if somewhere in there is where it should be .
i think you are with the long box cube and the side orb here it definitely look strange it is changing to the sea cloud you can see the the edge of the bottom of the cube .
it is coming this way and the side orb is coming down that is wild and if people would pay attention for five minute to watch the sky for a few minute to see this our sky have completely changed .
yep go back over to the pole go back to the left you are youve already walked past it anyway yeah the edge of a satium a satium gel .
i am gon na see the color difference .
you would think that after sunset you would have normal illumination on both side of the sky but there there not it is you can see the edge of the planet here .
you can see the edge of urie yep at whose moon is above it ?
yep it is a big dark band here .
it is this light in the sky is cut off and then i sat him and the yellow moon are over here thats incredible .
yeah and it is out view which is screwing with your head yes and then you guy said nabiru is more to the north or sorry northeast .
yeah it is exactly .
let me see if i can take a picture here real quick the parking lot three hundred and sixty .
yeah we are getting that i love that walmart but we are doing the three hundred and sixty now me yeah you can see that see that line at the bottom at the i have to is that what is that ?
thats the eye on tail going around the satin jello moon which is very blue .
absolutely see it now thats incredible and that dark blue area is the satin yellow moon but the light blue area is satin but the gray is the open normal sky but yet still ha part of seru in the out view and is that a helicopter ?
yeah yeah for some reason i live over they they come from the grand canyon they go on tour out there and then they come back around this time and my street is their avenue .
joy yeah it only last for about ten minute and then you pick up all the stuff that fell off the shelf and and spilled coffee and all of that .
yeah i do not know anybody could live that it would drive me insane you come home all your everythings on the floor alter guy .
yeah yeah big shout out to slap tam .
ive been watching a lot of slap tam lately and the ghost and that summer real summer fake awesome shit .
yeah yeah it is it is not a not what i thought we were gon na see tonight but still it is the sun ha been down for at least twenty minute now .
yeah you can here .
you can see yeah how they are they are illuminated .
it is incredible and that illuminated area thats orange off the horizon at the center of the sun that is the bottom of serru why it is illuminated the way it is .
otherwise it would be dark yeah because when the sun go down it get dark .
yeah this shouldnt be yellow that for this long .
no because the sun is shining on the bottom of these close passing planet .
awesome yeah it is they are there and everybody i close me way .
no everybody take it for granted .
no ive noticed a lot of people this week have been taking picture of the sky one day i we came out of the store and at least four people at once i couldnt believe it .
whats going on here ?
you ask them what they were taking picture of the sky i did you ask them i i let them do their thing .
i thought i thought ill let them let them ponder for a minute .
there you go .
nicole typed in sam .
i captured a long thin selfilluminated crap lying above erie colorado .
i sent you a small clip and photo of it .
here is a copy of what she sent .
i will send to you rebecca .
it is a short small ufo yeah and and then there a second. . this is a picture of it wow with two others that look to be triangular crap and then a lander how interesting thank you nicole .
those are very viable capture cool .
no ill get ill get off of face .
whoop god i got ta go back to facebook because i have to send it still sam come on earthbrain .
there is i have to pull up rebecca again and send her did i not send that to you and i sent it to her to all berry .
i am sending that to rebecca and apparently i i sent it to you but it did not go weird all .
i will try it a second time i see what i get the first one say log in or sign up to view .
i hope you can she said she posted it to her page .
shell mean to see if i can if you want nicole you can send it to me too and i can send it to rebecca or if i post it ill grab a copy of it .
i do not know if you can open those i am looking on montana sky watcher .
i do not know this is on your pm it is on your pm .
thats another good one too .
i am gon na save those i am coming off of facebook now .
shes got the best view nittanys kitten is here hang on one second .
one moment yeah a ha got an orangey yellow open bottom floor all and it is there .
it is been there .
shes getting big i am in i am in no your name yeah saru ha been visible for a couple of month now .
i know shes cute older picture i can grab you a quick one nicole .
yes. . where is it ?
all this is it is playful .
you said it me another one .
yeah this is that one you have trouble with this one all the time .
i do not know you are you blink .
yeah here my folder one of them i have on sarah pick and then ill get the one that you sent me if i do not have it included but there your drawing the drawing seru we do not see that very often .
yeah there it is .
yeah that one look at that .
sorry i am i wa online yeah you are patching in and out but do not know what you are doing .
it is but anyway you can see the orange illumination on the outside and that is atmospheric illumination which is why it is orange on the much larger .
she wa glitching out to me .
it could be me anyway while we are waiting let all hum .
no i know well play ave maria .
all anybody who been watching pop politics with perhaps i can not think of any other reason .
sorry thats take care of something .
i am back thats the same .
here this one .
are we still on theory ?
yeah i probably changed it now .
yeah no i wa trying to think of a joke even and i i couldnt even think of any joke no .
yeah sorry i want to here the other one you sent me that one yeah now that is thats the big bass cloud bass cloud of seru in the early year .
this is two thousand and eleven .
yeah yeah it is it is very orange and very regular and some people all go it is the super super not this super do not glow this one doe from nicole it wa one picture .
is that ?
sam or no a video and a picture a video. . i do not see that yet .
here little video and a grainy and yet it show what it show and then she show you a still capture of of said same i will get it and well see it together copy hi all .
glass are crooked .
it is such a great actor .
i should memorize his name the guy it did what wa he doing ?
ernest p world ernest camp ernest go to school ernest halloween ernest yeah ernest thats tv commercial for sprite and seven up and all of this and different local bakery and you name it great great actor he of course ha passed on since almost 70 on it .
i he did a he did a great walter brennan .
i think one of the best walter brennans .
yeah i definitely remember now that you yeah the kid are going it is almost halloween and the youtube is full of nothing but halloween program .
ive in the troll the troll booker and all of that .
no ive unfortunately unfortunately you side show you distract me from this crazy world passing planet am i no thats not easy lately .
i am not even in finding the joy in my my older documentary about roam or any of the other stuff anymore .
it is and i weigh i want to see nirvana stuff and i can not even enjoy an et video anymore because these guy are talking about extraterrestrial and is nasa lying to u about this theyve all lost their meaning because we know better .
we know that they are here and anybody else is talking about their nose and we have you can not stand to listen to it .
you can not stand .
he doesnt i am not gon na say all yeah i got the video .
i am sending it to the computer now .
we having it in a second i know you can not get to that level of fame without being and that when you are that it is hard to trust anything coming from them .
i had the opportunity i had the opportunity to move hollywood .
i had i had a colombia recording artist contract offered to me quite a quite a deal of money per week even but i did not know how long it would last i i could be uprooted and be there for a month and then be sent home .
i wa taking care of the kid and then i turned down the offer and then within a few month even the kid wa gone and she took off with him .
that wa another long sad story that i went through with my son .
but anyway that wa the 90 ?
i feel some of u have had way more difficult life than a lot of people yeah i have i have a and and and a couple of scifi way more my life .
yeah healthy the adoption story alone doesnt make any sense i do not have that but i have enough look at that .
thats pretty cool .
i would be thinking that yeah yeah hey it happened there an it wa still shot .
that might be better to easier to see yeah before the before the thyroid cancer surgery .
you are dizzy a hell and the guy go i feel i must inform you there a fifty chance that you will not ever be able to speak again and it is and i looked out .
i this way i have gruff gravelly voice sometimes after first and twenty nine minute of talking yeah look at that .
i see two star destroyer because those are two upper dot are triangle i looked at them big on my screen here and the bottom one is a landercraft a disc that is the bottom one in a disc a disc yeah it is a flying saucer .
yeah it is a flying saucer disc .
thats mine huge a third one a third light on that .
there a fourth one and there other blob of color .
i am looking at the directory .
there all kind of stuff in here a little nuance .
see picture of dream light .
yeah yeah thats sure you can you can tell if the kid were affiliated with this those are definitely et craft need yeah cool picture go back to normal screen .
i need to get out and look at nighttime sky .
i have low low peak to my southwest and i can look up but not out anyway that sound nice though .
i live two mile .
let the two mile from downtown i am close to downtown .
you have a level of light pollution because you are in town you are looking up .
i know i wa looking at my list of what id done or not then but or what id yeah we are good .
whatever you want to do sam .
it is five hour thirty two minute i do not know what happened to christopher .
i do not know maybe his phone died i do not know if he said anything quite a while to go there thats true .
he still on his journey. . i did not want to miss him if i wa on the lookout for him .
tara say can you show my tara and two son ?
thats tara .
i have a slideshow of picture that she sent me i almost forgot tara .
sorry let me turn my music down we can pull her video .
i am running out of voice .
thats all i hear it .
i know what you are saying ive got one ricola left .
my gosh we are wrapping up after tara death i i still i am still good for it is more than a fact .
i have half of the other one still left that wa sitting on the deck did not even see it i can i can grab this ricola .
i am fine i i do not keep them in my mouth the whole way .
it is home sized and it is smaller than a coaster .
i put my cough drop on it it is perfect i wa sitting there .
it is it is something you are worried stone .
you are supposed to rub in your hand or whatever and it is a little it is got flat edge .
thats christopher .
he had cloud and whatnot but otherwise thats very much what he showed u there a green blue to it .
there you go how many picture wa there i wa talking about being attention i know you let start over it is not long going two minutes. . i apologize if everybody go we do not want to see it again .
i i wa currently talking we were talking about cough drop yeah yeah you are .
yeah i lost track .
god hey i remember now we were sun had been down twenty to thirty minute now that dark object on the left at sunrush sunset a seru in the city yuri and seru nepecities above and to the not to the left at sunset up there .
yeah up there .
yeah that there that is the side of that this is satums yellow moon and this satum on the hand side yeah and i love it .
it is drawing that is the shadow .
i do not normally see the moon that i i do not know yeah id have to have been there to call it but thats definitely and this of course and here another example of the red out of the sun .
tara said it is a street light thank you tara street light hi chris .
the street light. . hey guy these are pic from tara .
that look the red asteroid going in front of the sun .
you sent me pic too chris do you want to send me anything else ?
itll take me a while to find all that stuff .
he doe look that i got the one you sent me and well show those .
wow yeah no there is a there is a flourished to the left of the sun there the blue blip which could be lens flare nonlens flare .
yep exact same thing .
look at that .
why is it tarra ?
it is sarah. . and here is her picture her video of it we believe it is two sun .
i think this is her second or third capture now shes on a mission i am not sure if i am on a mission to i honestly thats a big i can not think of a better prospect for .
youd be yeah you got two location .
there are there are two lens flare there .
question is would it be that small or doe she have the blue asteroid yeah in the upper corner would our star be that small ?
wow would it be ?
look at that .
no it wouldnt be but if it is that close to view is it being outshined and how big is the actual star ?
because we are seeing this a very large flare and look at the size of that .
yeah and shes in texas and it is that big .
now the farther south you go the bigger the sun doe appear .
i learned that the first time i went to mexico and california .
sure it is a whole lot smaller up here in montana .
the upper look cut off too .
yeah yeah yeah that that blip that white blip is it is definitely there because it move along .
with it doesnt change with the series .
it is definitely there .
now question is is it the second sun being outshined ?
it is way small to be the second sun or is it the blue asteroid ?
because thats about the size for the asteroid .
let me blow it up another one here and see if there a facial to it .
i do not see a facial but yeah it is a little small to be the second star .
it could be because it could still be being outshined and we do not know how big this real star in the center a i said before .
now the actual star of what we are looking at here is because it could be a cut off enlarged flare a from or left or both .
it is very good that you caught that .
it is one of those two .
it is definitely not normal .
it is not one of our regular planet either .
it could be because there are four regular planet on the other side of the sun but i am not seeing that bright .
it is hard .
it is a few pic to chris .
we do not know if it is an asteroid or a sun .
is that what we are saying ? .
it is either a blue asteroid or it is the same but it is definitely a illuminated smaller object to the light of the sun .
it is not a ... yes .
i wanted to pull tara her video from last week .
she had a two sun video .
because it moved lip in the lens flare .
it tell u there are two object .
this wa a lens flare .
now that wa last week .
is this the same thing ?
it is in the same spot is not it ? .
i wonder ... something .
i can not imagine that soul would be farther away than it used to be .
we still have to have our holder placement but our system is not breaking up .
... thats what make all of this hard .
if you do not see it for yourself by yourself when you are standing outside and watching .
sometimes it is difficult to make a summation .
i think ... i do not know if ... sam are you having second thought maybe ?
no i am still ... this is why we havent completely called the second part .
they are separating .
we do not have ... we are up to six or seven example of it .
by the time we get to ten or twelve i will have a better definition of it .
because then well have more example .
and this is why ... look ... god we talked about the planet name from year two and a half to year three and a half .
we talked about the planet name for over a year .
before we even settled that yeah we are gon na call them that .
because i knew the name ahead of time .
but then we were calling all the purple planet or the striped planet .
the striped planet and the blue planet and the blue green planet .
and the red planet and the little green planet .
and they all matched and we went a year or longer knowing the name .
but never being able to attribute it without more proof .
and then once we saw purple planet had to come in and it matched everything else .
it wa god that we have to .
and we finally named the planet .
because we did not want to jump across that board thinking that we are all kink shit and everything .
and we knew what we were doing until we proved it .
and over a year of watching it and debating it with new member and old member .
and we finally we went with name weve never looked back since .
and they are active .
and they are from the pleiadian message .
it is not something we did not make up the name .
it wa a hand and me down from the internet going all the way back to two thousand and eight .
and it is stuck and i am not going to call him harrington and all the other crazy shit that other scientist attributed .
which wa a way for them to mask the whole thing in a fake name .
nobody would know what they were talking about .
by renaming the planet after themselves .
which i did not want to do and i did not want to be aerated .
and the moon sam .
let me see if this one it .
thats not it .
shes asking me if i have a. there another .
further back slide .
let me try to get .
thats telling u there two definitely two object there .
why is not the other lens flare bigger which is weird .
you can not do all the science and have all the answer but yeah there thats definitely an object illuminated above on the hand side .
which would be very strange .
and are we are we are we that confused are we forgotten the size of our son .
is that small .
and then the standard red .
is the standard red even bigger getting closer to u is it eighty million mile or seventy five million mile away from u . thats my fear .
because now if it is leaving .
why is it on the left hand side of our son .
because if it wa leaving it should be on the hand side of our son .
which cause me a level of concern .
we do not know where it is going to go .
there it is .
this is that same video but further back .
yeah there definitely an illuminated object to the upper .
because ive got it ive got on a large screen now .
keep watching this .
this is six or seven and we watch this .
and then again if they separate farther apart from each other then well get a better idea. . weve got to continue to watch whats going on and do you keep doing what you are doing .
you are doing a great job .
and yes it is hard to get this shit through cloud .
she said between eleven and one seems to be a prime time for this .
yeah thats because thats when you are going to have the highest arc and direct overheadness .
and i would look before dawn if the sun is going to come up and then you might see the smaller one first .
then then crack of dawn it go across the horizon depending on where you live if you have mountain in the way it take longer .
and the other one might come up first and then the smaller one by itself and then the larger sun come up and then that will of course over illuminate .
who know .
this is all part of the game where we got to keep watching and keep watching and keep watching and and compare our note and take more video and more capture .
and and yeah look at that .
that is very definitely illuminated .
and it is not asteroid illuminated .
it is bright .
and then we have not talked about the tool star. . there something we did not talk about in a long time. . yeah .
i do not hear about the tool star .
that wa back when i first started your grave .
that wa something that wa talked about often .
it wa this little blue dot wasnt it .
brighter than anything out there. . but yeah it always put off the intense shaft lighting .
is it a i can not remember is it a moon or a craft .
no it is not a mini it is a mini it is a mini being or or man made created star .
yeah it is a technology .
it is it is it is adhered the outer proximity of nibiru proper .
it is a technological star that wa created a a mini star and they use that stay connected to their star they do not go behind imaru and hit an ice age .
because they they control this is part of their technology they control their placement in the in the binary solar system with this mini tool star .
it is a direct miniature star thread connection to their star which keep them in more controlled proper placement .
beyond that i do not have the knowledge of that but thats what i know .
and i do not know how i know it .
i know it .
i know it .
i wonder how old it is you think there no way of telling i know but .
i i talk about when you start from the same thing on whats inside the ark of the covenant .
remember in some of the picture from the bible them opening a lid and there a big bright intensely large flare of light that come out of what if they put a mini star in there a little contained start micro cosmic star .
and that power alone would put off an air an aura of healing any number of power if you could focus in on that energy .
and ive often believed that inside the ark of the covenant wa a tiny mini star .
thats one of my little quirk you can you can laugh all you want but .
no it is nothing to laugh at i do not think .
ive always believed that there a micro mini star inside the ark of the covenant .
and i can not elaborate more on that .
that make sense because in raider of the lost ark when they opened the ark it wa bright the white this white light wa emitting from the ark and all these .
we are all part of the building block of the other dimension because people think of dimension a a mirror dimension but not a larger or smaller dimension .
and i believe thats we are the next dimension below u is smaller than we are in the microcosm ant man and all of that the subatomic and the and the next dimension above u is the astro atomic that we are the building block of .
and our soul is big .
it is a cell or a compound of metal or whatever soft metal group .
and we are we are part of a larger connected construction of larger universe in a larger dimension .
you can ponder astrophysics forever and there no way to come up with the proper answer unless you got some guide in in some scientific think tank going yeah look at the plaque on the wall .
thats mine .
i have a degree and i think this other than that thats there no answer for u to be able to prove any of this stuff .
and ive always pondered that dimension are micro medium and larger .
we are all connected .
no all that same set of rule .
all of those dimension are connected which is what hold everything together .
why it doesnt say which is why it is billion of year old and keep getting bigger .
and then their science is talking about we do not know why space is moving out .
it is moving .
we thought it wa static .
it ha to do with the one constant in this universe of perpetual motion .
the one and only constant is heat and cold exchange .
space is cold .
the big bang went boom .
that heat is going outward .
it is moving to the cold and the cold and the heat are turning place .
our solar system our universe is always expanding because that heat that energy will always continue outward .
and do our dimension because they are all connected .
physic according to sam or hoffman or whatever you want to it is all speculative .
i could go on and on about it but .
one hundred and forty .
i wa going to say they there this video where they took an iphone apple chip and they get this high powered microscope .
and they zoom in on it and it show all the intricate work and then they zoom in some more .
and it is one level after the next sam is saying with these dimension it is there one level then there another .
and if you watch this video it is crazy how it is it is this how did we make this thing and build it that ?
and there all these layer to it .
it is pretty neat .
yeah i love my site .
and watching computer generated .
if you sit and watch a fibronacci sequence you are looking at dimension .
it is the same and it get bigger and bigger or smaller and smaller which depends on which direction you are looking at the fibronacci sequence .
it is a repetitive connective pattern that no matter how deep you go in it is the same or how far you pull out it get the same .
and i love watching those .
and i havent seen any of them recently and i do need to drag up a couple of fibronacci sequence .
they are awesome .
and the sound study and the sand the sand sound harmonic study .
i love those too .
yeah yeah yeah awesome stuff .
awesome stuff .
and thats what the star and physic sound equal light equal matter .
and these pattern are formed from sound and then we could start talking about the humming of the planet and all the the trumpet sound from the plant when the when the planet first got here and all of that .
and we did not have any of that prior to that .
we did not have any crazy trumpet sound in two thousand and eight or two thousand and five or one thousand nine hundred and ninety seven .
none of that happened .
it happened when the secondary planet got here .
and thats when all these harmonic sound equal light equal matter .
all this crazy shit happened .
radioactive decay changed .
our light changed .
our earth tone are shoo our human resonance changed .
our star changed .
all our planet tipped .
everything changed .
and to ignore it is insane .
it is there are many thing that are all connected to look at this look at this .
it is pointing that way .
it is pointing that way .
it is pointing that way .
and i do not know how anybodys missing all of this and not putting it together .
it hurt my widow head .
it is it is an incredible responsibility you have to be the only person that ha this information .
i am sure my older brother is my biggest information weve ever seen .
i i do not see this a a responsibility .
i see it a an opinion. . it is my it is my duty to share my opinion. . i wa told that i would have an effect on some people .
not for the wrong reason but for the reason .
i do not do this to control people or to start a cult or anything that .
a cult is always the cult leader .
number one in my case you guy are number one in my opinion .
it is the it is the science and the member that matter .
and ive i have fried my as .
the picture you are looking at up in the upper hand corner here is a blonde samuel hoffman .
and i looked in the mirror the other day and there not much blonde going on anymore .
i have this year .
i even six month ago i wa very blonde still blonde .
i looked in the mirror the other day and went no .
what happened ?
when this when did this kick in ?
i turned gray haired recently .
you guy stop me to gray hair .
it is all your fault .
the same year i have my gray is all underneath the headphone .
here but my ear if i pull my hair back up it is very white .
i had myself from the side recently and then i got a picture of myself .
i wa the camera wa on and the computer wasnt running and i wasnt trying to post it .
and i looked over and wow my hair is gray .
and it is it is way curly on my shoulder now .
i am growing it back .
cut my hair because i knew i thought i had to go to court and i did not want to have long hair in front of the judge .
and then i did not need to go to court .
i know i got my hair for no reason .
disappointing but you do what you got to do. . here a few picture from christopher and he took today .
let wrap it up with that .
a few picture .
plus he on business with a multiple .
this wa after the first time i went outside .
i thought maybe above the building could be possibly a star destroyer or something .
what it looked .
that wa cool .
there a lot of there asteroid there .
there are several asteroid there .
look above the tower and the little the the antenna .
there a c upside or flat laying on his back c cloud and that is an asteroid .
and then there two or three behind it .
and remember we talked about this last week and the week before there a whole bunch of new asteroid that weve never documented because they were small before .
and now they are they are a chunk of manga man .
that is the site of your with the tan asteroid .
it is in your face there .
you can see him crossing sam draw .
it is cool .
tan asteroid and happy .
and then lorraine is the white up toward the upper there .
this is fappy is the middle bottom there .
and happy there .
thats in our bubble palm tree .
look at that .
we are under the happy .
leander named happy .
which one ?
it is a it is above the .
palm tree. . thats happy .
tan asteroid is over to the upper middle .
and those trail are .
i am going to make a comparison with that .
because it look the angle is perfect that slanted .
and it is always that to the left of our son .
i tell people when i am out live on tick tock we are always talking about left of our son salamander group .
i mentioned it all the time .
and it is i tell people it is always there left of our son coming in from a slant .
it would be repetitive if it wasnt something significant .
if you look on the hand side palm tree .
a little bit above it there .
there look this wavy line of gray black area to the and headed towards the middle of the picture .
that that blueish grayish wavy line with the white face .
thats the edge of yuri .
that wavy line is the definition between our stripe .
here again .
tan asteroid again over the left hand palm tree is happy and over to the top upper is lorraine .
and this is the bottom of at two at two moon .
the best .
and the red is coming in from over the palm tree to the left .
thats the red asteroid and dead center in the front is where the texas cube and all of that crap is .
if you look and see a cube sitting there with a bunch of other stuff around it .
this is the other side of the parking lot .
and once you get once you move twenty thirty foot everything change it is this is awesome .
and that dark blue area in the upper left the middle in this case and you can see the blue circle .
that is yuri and at two and at two moon all in the same way that bent rounded illumination come off .
going on there .
i am going to back it up a little bit because i saw something hang on .
yeah that look at the sun .
how it is curved that .
thats a cut off refraction .
there there the sun is there an object in the way .
terror read my mind .
there is a lot .
what is that what is that little square little white thing over the hand palm tree .
there a tiny little square there .
what ship is that .
that. . a little hook in the middle of the picture on the hand side .
there a little hook cloud going to a little square .
about two inch away from the palm tree .
the upper .
it look a craft .
thats weird .
you have earth .
i believe the human have a spacecraft with a i have a picture of it with a back deck on it that is made for space walking where you can walk off that back deck into space walk .
and i wa way fit that picture .
i do not even know where that picture is .
i have to look that up again .
between the light pole and the palm tree .
the bar .
between the light pole and the palm tree look square and very texas qb .
the light blue .
that light blue look in texas qb .
and then the dark blue above it is spin .
it is moon and out to yeah .
there a lot going on in this .
there a lot there is not it .
and then beside it to the left is asteroid .
it is you look up and it is a far a you can see .
you can see crap all the way a far a you can see looking upwards .
do between the palm tree and the light pole .
go back. . sorry .
back it up .
look at that circular cloud between the palm tree and the light pole .
a pair of eye and a nose .
and there your halloween .
the last stand and dead .
itll look at u . looking at u . between the light pole and the palm tree on the left .
on the left .
that one. . look at the cloud circle dead center between the palm tree and the light pole .
it is a skull asteroid .
when you change picture i saw it out of the corner of my eye because i looked over the microphone and then i brought my eye back and i went shit thats the skull staring at me .
look at that .
thats cool. . and here not what half an hour ago two hour ago i wa going what i want for halloween .
i want that big damn skull to be staring at me for halloween and there it is .
you definitely saw it when i wa out there .
you said thats a skull asteroid and i am i can not tell because it is much more bright i can not see anything .
this is from last week video .
you are much there .
yeah thats two sighting .
yeah thats a skull .
god can you imagine halloween night that sucker becoming illuminated at night over the little trick or treater .
using the red from the sathems refractive color a and a little bit of orange and stuff from seru and some purple and yeah look at it look it is on the left of the light pole there it is again .
thats the skull asteroid .
is it ?
what you are talking about is above the power line with the little line to one sideways .
all the way to the middle of the picture .
all the higher up .
i am looking down what is that thing because there an asteroid for sure above the power line because it is those little sideways line .
yeah but thats true .
i wondered it is what .
thats a trail thats eddie trail .
the asteroid itself proper .
they are circular and then you do not do not pay attention to the trail .
the big circular ball. . thats to the left of that light pole .
there a big circle there to the left of the light pole .
i see that too .
in that look for two eye and a nose because the front of it is masked by cloud .
go back to the other picture .
go back one picture .
it is way clearer on the other picture .
this one .
and a nose .
and a nose .
and a nose. . look carefully .
look at that .
thats crazy how close that is .
now do you have a copy of the real nasa release footage for all of u ?
i have them to get it .
i know where my copy is .
i want to call asteroid but if you have it go ahead .
and of course it is in the monthly site grind too .
and it is also it is where i drew it this month on the monthly site grind also .
except it is bigger than i do .
happy halloween .
there once it .
in time for halloween .
i do not know how many time i thought i saw the skull asteroid in my photo and it is never it is never it ever .
it is tricky .
because it is hiding between at you and yuri .
that wasnt the yeah .
there it .
there is on your drawing .
now let get the nasa one here .
and remember the mouth is not that predominantly visible .
and in the picture on the there is an object in front of the jaw .
and that wa the lead object back year ago .
thats why it is black .
but it is fully there .
but you can not see it because there another object in front of it thats shadowing it .
but the left picture is the nasa released footage .
the picture is also nasa released footage .
and the left eye is bigger than the eye .
wow. . and then the picture on now the picture on the left is facing the opposite director because that is where it wa visible in two thousand and eighteen when yuri and attu were on the hand side which is why the illumination is coming from the left .
the picture on the is from two thousand and nineteen two thousand and twenty when attu and yuri were visibly overhead and in front of u . and this is when you could see in between them .
and of course youve got dozen and dozen of more capture of them .
this one is good .
that is scary .
and this is how i saw it creep out of the light the first time i saw it by eye in two thousand and fifteen .
and it came out .
you got teeth. . and the wispy cloud make those teeth .
in the nasa release is probably doctored to le scary .
they probably doctored it down .
look at that .
i havent seen that yet .
is it carved or is it not carved ?
and did somebody carve that asteroid to look that to scare the crap out of the earth for a thousand year or whatever. . whats the story behind that ?
id love to know .
the story of the asteroid because it is hot .
we talked about it for four year before nasa announced it .
and then i chuckled god that day .
they said yeah there is an asteroid .
and then they gave the wrong orbit placement and the wrong frequency of return orbit .
and i laughed .
caught them in another lie .
and they said it come by every three and a half year in earth orbit natural going around dinner plate scenario .
when we knew better because we knew that it wa not in a earth orbit pattern earth and our normal planet because we knew it wa hiding between yuri and atu in the other solar system that they can not even mention .
but the funny thing is this is the only object that they have mentioned out of the niver system .
yeah thats weird .
it is the only one .
and i thought of that for the first time now .
yeah there you go .
and there a whole shitload of stuff in behind it .
and if you notice i drew a tiny little cube in there a . yeah .
for the of it .
the skull is a tiny little cube .
it should be bigger but i drew it in a a hint rather than if you look .
there a tiny little cube to the of the skull .
yeah look at that .
of course it match .
i do not i often i do not think about it .
and it is ... yeah let see .
shes asking and the mini moon is that something that wa named already by you sam ?
thats micro stuff compared to what weve been watching .
if we tried to if we tried to catalog everything up there we would be wed be insane and then wed be confusing everybody .
now the picture on the here is one of the oldest sighting of the skull asteroid .
and this wa when it wa horizontal off the horizon .
god i am gon na say two thousand and sixteenish seventeenish .
i do not remember the year i think the year on the left hand picture because of the light angle would have to be two thousand and seventeentwo thousand and eighteen .
but the oldest one is the one on the .
and that wa when we knew we had a bunch that week that first week that we saw .
we started seeing this this came from europe i believe .
it is got ta be it is got ta be three asteroid .
nah it can not be it can not be a skull .
and then we started getting closeup of it for a couple of month .
and then we did not even dare talk about it .
and then it became prominent .
and that we and then i saw it by eye about two thousand and fifteen .
and after that being that i knew that i saw it creep around the backside of attu in between yuri .
and i knew where the placement wa in my own mind .
and i went it is real .
for the longest time this is back when you were first starting out rebecca .
and we had a lot of religious folk in some of the early montana sky watcher one two etc .
and over the year we still have them but theyve grown their religion and grown some science too .
it is it is been a long process to get here .
but love every second of it .
yeah that one is particularly gruesome .
and i believe it is back in the and ill notice where the light coming from from the left again .
this ha got to be two thousand and seventeen two thousand and eighteen when yuri wa on the hand side of the sun .
a sarah wa backing away and nibiru wa backing away and then we got to deal with yuri .
yeah thats .
that is weird .
and the funny thing is gray alien do have eye about that big .
most everybody improperly draw them .
they make their eye too big or too small .
and i have seen my share of them .
and theyve got hauntingly scary big black eye .
and you do not know if they are directly looking at you or not because there no real pupil .
they are creepy .
they can be nice if they want to be .
and thats why i always say we know about the gray .
they need to be superbites .
they look at u animal but i would think i am not the nervous looking at them they are an animal .
they are jealous and they are mad at u that we are destroying our world and how we could dare to be our penance way we do when they lost their .
they are .
they are recovering recovering lost race .
and they work for the higher race to do because they can atmospherically handle different atmosphere .
they are the worker .
when somebody come from another planet they can not function in our atmosphere .
but these guy can .
i do not think you ... yeah thats completely weird .
i think thats an overdramatization of reality. . i do not know .
i think it is wrapping in a bind .
somebody went nut on .
when it come to gray i do not think anybody give that information out about gray and they have smart one and dumb one and they i talk about the great big traveling fact velociraptor or cat or wolf .
they travel in group .
and the old saying is if a gray or two in the wood in front of you do not shoot at them because there seven behind you velociraptor or wolf .
yeah you got a lot in there .
this shot alone is insane .
the amount of object i am seeing here .
there a bunch of little square there .
maybe there some new ship we havent seen before .
i wa going to ask that .
it is entirely possible .
they are long they are square they are smaller .
they are different than anything weve seen .
it is entirely possible another faction got here .
because those are irregular .
they are absolutely irregular and they look crap to me .
ive been staring at picture for fourteen year .
if not me qualified to call it then who ?
yeah behind the palm tree on the left is where the skull asteroid is .
thats what that .
behind it is the skull .
and the spiral asteroid is over to the left above the two palm tree on the left .
do the spiral ?
yeah i see that .
or it is or it is pappy .
i have to take it back .
it is not spiral .
the spiral should be lower off to the and closer .
and the lead object also stand out now that dark spot to the upper .
yeah darker than the ground in the size is .
and also there should be the long box cube should be on the in that blue a and darker .
and maybe thats about the palm tree in the .
the smaller one .
he going to go to bed .
it is four a.m. for him .
thank you for the last show long .
happy halloween in case you do not see you ahead of time .
i am glad that you are going our show and it is all david been around forever .
thank you for your excellent membership .
and we love you dearly .
you can not say you next week too .
i know that me too .
i joined the club .
you do not want to hear me sing .
man it is rough .
it is uncomfortable .
it hurt to try to sing now since ive had the surgery .
and i worry about it .
i worry about it because i am supposed to go in for more and i do not want more because i need my voice .
and i do not need any more cutting on me .
i do not surgery at all .
i feel a little twinge from time to time and i am not uncomfortable and i am not in pain and i am swallowing .
for the last time that lump got big fast it wa spooky .
i had a walnut underneath my larynx and i couldnt swallow anything anymore i finally went in .
they went when were you exposed to great deal of radiation ?
not if but when .
and i believe it wa spookishima .
i know i remember the day that i got rained on .
were you exposed to that much radiation ?
i remember the day that i wa out in that rainstorm .
it wa a freak rainstorm .
i went out chasing my lawn furniture .
i wa out in the rain for probably three maybe four minute .
chasing down the table in the chair and bringing them back to the yard and stacking them they wouldnt blow away again in an eddy wind free area .
and then i came back in the house and i wa on within about two and a half to five minute i wa on fire .
everywhere that the rain wa on my face the top of my head my shoulder my elbow my knee my back .
everywhere i wa bending over that the rain wa on me .
especially my cheek where the glass where my glass dropped the water under my facial cheek area .
and then i wa burning and i thought acid rain .
it wa notably burning .
and i went and immediately took a shower and scrubbed that area and it wa painful to even touch those area .
and for about five year i had trouble even washing my hair .
because the top of my head hurt bad and my top of my shoulder .
and then i got sick for a very long time .
i could barely do anything .
i am trying to raise the kid at the same time and that wa two thousand and eleven .
and then five year later i had that surgery .
and it wa of course exterior cancer .
it wasnt interior thyroid cancer which is natural cancer .
mine wa exterior .
i got exposed to radiation .
and they told me that directly .
what blow me and i asked the doctor i said what did you report that to the cdc and she said no we do not report that .
it is shouldnt you ?
and this is going on in canada and oregon coast or washington state or california now if you go to the beach and you are listening and you go swimming at the beach stay the hell away from black sand .
the area if you are a beach goer what black sand is .
stay away from it .
it is toxic .
it is radioactive .
the noaa national oceanic aeronautical administration .
year ago and they only did it once they warned everybody absolutely to not eat any fish out of the entire pacific ocean .
because it is radioactive with bucushima waste which is cesium two hundred and fourteen .
i do not know and the russian do that to spy all the time .
they bring isotope into people proximity where they get sick and could die .
and i got ill for a very long time and i did not tell anybody .
i tried to struggle through it until i had the surgery and then when i wa told what i wa told then i wanted to share that information with you guy .
i think it is still a crime that they are still dumping that radioactive degraded water .
now it is not a toxic a it used to be but it is still toxic and they are dumping it in the ocean every day .
and they will be for year to come .
every day one .
the day that happened every damn major country on this planet should have been flying bomber airplane bomber drop of cement on top of it from every country on this planet .
thats what i do not get .
you should build a cement mountain out of that .
and then underneath it and then cemented underneath it .
and they are not and it is still it went china syndrome .
they do the reactors. . they tried building this ice they bury these pipe around the reactor vessel into the ground .
i do not know how far deep but it is the water the groundwater is coming off the mountain .
to the ocean and it go it is going through the reactor .
and they put these pipe in .
they ran water through the pipe and they tried to freeze the ground in an effort to stop the groundwater .
they have to build a sarcophagus over the top of it and underneath of it .
and they havent done it yet .
what are they what are they doing .
why are not other country saying this is .
why are not we doing something about it .
we are doing something about it .
i think every country on the planet .
i do not know why .
day one they should have been dropping bomber load repetitive bomber load of cement over the top of that within within ten hour .
it should have been nonstop until that thing wa buried in eighty foot of cement .
and then when that dry you dig underneath it and then you do a third here a third here a fifth or a sixth of it in this edge and you you bury that and then you add .
and yeah great people or machine going down there would be exposed .
and thats the thing .
there we do not even know how many people are going to die from from fukushima including their resident .
but if you look at chernobyl and stuff that there some weird shit going on with chernobyl where the wolf are doing fine .
a a matter of fact they are getting quite big .
there are there are some noticeable genetic alteration going in some of the animal in that area .
it is also not nearly a radioactive a it used to be which is odd .
of course who science do you trust .
and the same thing with fukushima already there people already wandering back into the fukushima prefecture .
and they are not getting two hundred and fifty rad they are getting one hundred rad or seventy five and leaf wa one hundred and twenty five depending on which series of science you study .
but if you go to the beach on california or in oregon and you walk up with to the black sand with a geiger counter youll read one hundred and twenty eight one hundred and forty which is lethal dose .
if you were to let your kid play in that for an hour your kid would die within a couple of year .
our sea our ocean life wa poor poor animal that are eating all our plastic bag thinking they are squid whale etc .
and when they decay they put off a toxic radioactive decay and those toxin that radioactive degradation of a synthetic it is inside of u or anything else it is not healthy .
now if it wa a natural decay then it would be naturally absorbed by the human body .
this is not this is a synthetic and it ha it ha consequence and we should never have gone a crazy a we did with plastic .
it is in everything and now we are making all these crazy plastic and if you have a bottle or a piece of plastic that break in your hand after about six month .
radioactive that is or how alteringly toxic the degradation of that plastic is for it to break down that .
it is pretty and do not god do not keep bottled water in your car .
if you do and you are adding instant toxic pcbs to your water and you are drinking it .
it is almost gun to your head stupid do not keep i do not even buy that shit .
all water come in plastic though .
i know not keeping it in your car where it is hot and for a long time .
we do not know where it wa stored before we bought it in store .
there an average of time i think it is it is some water can take up to six month to get from the where they package it to the store .
. . and then how long have you done that .
and then read the label where wa it stored .
how hot wa it .
what they say .
they say this is recycled water which mean it is full of antibiotic and antidepressant and hormone and god only know because they do not filter that shit out at the at the at the sanitation company .
they do not microscopically filter that .
no they sell water that came out of a came out of a water treatment plant in houston texas and then they added fresh water .
and then while my phone wa doing .
. . and that all go into groundwater .
i think there is a glass . . yeah .
i am a gallon jug a far a safer than those plastic bottle .
now the big five gallon the blue plastic they do not break down .
if you got a plastic milk jug for about for milk will last about two to two and a half year .
those those bottle water bottle theyll last a year .
and then they break and you squeeze them and then they shatter .
that show you the breakdown of how fast there is decay and pcbs going into that water .
enough about that .
i do that too .
put a little sprinkle in your water .
it ha some .
borax is a quality .
borax wa removed from laundry far .
because that used back in the 70 . thats what used to cause all the bubbly foam on our our pond and stream because the water would go into the end and would bubble and and and then youd see all of this buzz .
but if you have borax and you throw it into your laundry soap your laundry soap is going to clean away way better .
but i do not recommend using great deal amount of use a couple tablespoon .
do not throw a whole cup in there .
a couple of tablespoon of borax .
that way you are being environmentally friendly .
you borax is used in the separation of gold .
a a matter of fact .
anybody who want to look out of process and make and learn about gold look up one of my favorite youtubers .
i watched most mount baker .
which is mount baker in washington state .
and i watch a lot of his video .
i watched him from a younger guy and he getting gray on his chin now .
thats how long ive been watching him .
i hope you listen to our show .
and he ha his own gold mine .
lock mine and then he also break it down how he process it .
now he separate the copper and there a whole bunch of cool chemistry and alchemy going on there .
he teach all kind of stuff .
if you want to learn how to make gold out of the side of a mountain into a little bar .
hell show you all of that .
and there a whole bunch of people that do that dan hurd prospecting .
it is another one that i to watch .
and he doe real good .
he hilarious .
he from canada .
he a sketch one guy or maybe anyway .
he could be elsewhere but i think he up there .
i know he up in western canada .
and then there all kind of other one .
i still watching the coast town living .
thats another good one .
thats a guy who run a body silver mine in southern california outside of los angeles .
in case you want to watch those .
and those three guy have all gotten together .
i think all three of them have .
i know that mount baker mining and metal ha gone through sarah gordo and i know that he also gone over with dan hurd .
they all know each other .
it is a cool little youtube environment and how to process and learn about gold .
which is also part of what we are talking about here .
and the fact that we earthling are on this soft metal planet mining commodity for the higher race that own u that nobody want to hear .
that are here now parked over our head and going you puny little human give u our stuff .
tribute of the god whether you it or not .
no wonder the queen died .
she did not want to give up all her treasure .
you imagine the mountain of gold that those people have .
now i bet they have to part with some of it .
where do they keep it all ?
you do not think bucking in my palace is all ballroom and bathroom is it .
those city have been there for seven hundred to eight hundred a year .
rome for instance three hundred to two hundred ad and then prior to that wa even other kink ship and all .
i can not even imagine amassing that amount of gold .
anyway it would turn you crazy to try and protect all of that shit .
id rather be poor .
more money more problem .
doesnt it get to a certain point where you do not need anymore .
yeah but you do not dare leave home because somebody might sneak in and steal it while you are away .
the crown jewel for god sake .
can you imagine even owning the crown jewel that you couldnt wear them often enough to make it worthwhile .
the star of rhodesia or the the great pearl of death and all these other thing that are embedded in crown and all this crap that people died over diamond the size of a golf ball .
and all of that ha been sequestered by king and we the peasant who have been you served into servitude through comfort we are now we are a bunch of sissy .
i could you imagine your average joe facebook trying to survive in montana in a snowstorm .
i can not imagine trying to survive in a snowstorm .
i get ive slept in snow cave before with a teabag and the raw rabbit sandwich .
i did one time eat raw rabbit .
it is not fun .
it wa partially cooked but yeah it is chewing rubber .
if you are if you are cold enough and you are hungry and you are .
yeah because you are hungry and you got nothing else .
thats what you eat .
my i guess squirrel and all the gamey or maid have lower phosphorus in it and when my wife had my wife ha a kidney transplant when you go into kidney failure you can not eat you can not have any food with phosphorus in it .
it cause a problem with your thyroid and then it is a whole cascade of problem they put in the hospital menu for her .
i am are they making this in the hospital cafeteria .
why would that be on the hospital menu thats always been pretty funny .
hey now whats wrong with a little hausen pepper .
thats german for rabbit by the way .
even having that on their menu .
wheres my hausen pepper .
you can learn these thing back when cartoon you teach you things. . did you did you watch those beekmans world video that i posted .
did you enjoy them .
yeah they are good .
i the penguin .
they are funny .
yeah i told you we should have listened to montana skywatchers .
i forgot their name but they are pretty funny .
yeah they are .
the tv catch on fire and they are funny .
yeah why do not we see the rerun of that .
come on man ill watch the beekmans world rerun and enjoy every second of it .
way better than bill nye the science guy .
do not tell him that .
bill will probably get mad at me if he heard me .
i definitely did enjoy beekmans world very much .
and they teach you science. . he doe teach some very good .
although he talking about rabbit part and god only know what or rat part or .
by the way ive often thought one of the top if we wanted to run a youtube program where we could get a lot of view .
we should run one called fun with fart .
and then everybody submit their daily fart photo from around member around the world .
thats you got ta do weird radical stuff to get view .
we could have a generation of people tick talking picture of the back side a they let out the ripper of the day. . yeah .
i see your point though .
thats where we are at .
that would probably be a hit .
probably. . and to this day my favorite bud light commercial .
every time i think it is about that time we are going to have it out again this season .
it is the bud light commercial with the slay ride. . and the guy take this girl out on a slay ride and shes sitting there and they are in a nice winter land after dark moon shining star are out .
shes holding this candle in front of her .
they are dressed in all these nice beautiful wintery clothes and he go now for the real surprise .
he bend over to grab out these two bud light .
meanwhile shes holding this candle .
light lane it .
the horse lift up his tail and rip off a fart and ignites this woman on fire and her hair is standing up and all singed in pride .
he come up the bud light and he go whoa .
then it is still to this day my favorite bud light commercial is the slay ride and it is no matter how many time i watch it i still have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a hoot .
i still break up and complete laughter .
ive watched it a hundred time and bud light at slay ride it is a commercial you can look it up .
and my other favorite is rocketman the fart scene out of the movie rocketman and commander i do not feel good and they are joined their spacesuit because they have a malfunction .
black i am talking about gibberish by now and we are we are talking about spinning circle .
can you hear me ?
no you couldnt hear me .
i wa in the kitchen .
love it when you all run long .
but can understand yall get tired .
it is because i start at eight thirty this morning .
i wake up and when you wake up to the time the show start go real quick ?
yeah ive been sitting in my show .
it is almost twelve hour .
my show start at eight thirty .
yeah. . but i wa going to say our longest show wa ten hour and eight minute .
it wa six month ago .
i think that wa the one .
i think nicole wa on that show .
i am pretty sure that wa the show that she wa with u on .
and some of our newer viewer are probably going to be crazy .
after that it wa nine hour and fifty one minutes. . and then nine nineteen nine zero three nine zero one .
those are the top five .
yeah i we are at top .
we are at number six .
yeah let get to number seven .
yeah let get somewhere around nine hour .
we can we got three and a half minute and yeah i am i am i am feeling warm and sweaty and i do not think the house is warm .
ive me been sitting in this chair too long .
it feel good to walk around .
we torture ourselves .
and i ive digressed off the topic five time .
and the crazy ramblings of sam said i am shut up and i i chuckle every time i bring that back up i do not know my my leg hurt from walking all day .
the thing we put our body through to get this information out .
i know i know i know i take advantage over time together well play all week for this moment. . yeah i do walking up the hill though it give you a better it give me a better vantage point of everything .
and it is when i when i look up the street and realize i got to walk uphill it is not i turn the other way and walk down the block to the church parking lot .
i finally did it today. . i need to get one of those electric bike that jillian ha or something .
. . thatd be handy. . to get the information out there real quick .
but the view is perfect .
is it a full three hundred and sixty view or is it the west ?
it is that there .
from the southeast all the way to the northeast and then that mountain is behind me. . yeah you can pretty much get everything .
nate thats cool .
i want to get the view .
i do not know if you can hear me .
all the way up against the mountain .
thats the edge town .
. . and then the mountain and thats it .
i am giving connection warnings. . chris can you hear me ?
can you hear me ? .
i am getting having trouble connecting issue .
remember that last time they they booted me off the show when we started talking about it four minute early .
i am i am having connection trouble .
ill stay a long a they let me but i figured id let .
ive got the big x screen in front of me here saying having trouble connecting this often can be caused by unstable internet connection .
my wifi is try plugging it into your router .
yeah. . i know .
i am having wifi issue and it is still up .
i do not see rebecca at all and shes gone .
maybe they got her booted too .
we are going you guy are you guy are boring .
we are we are going to boot you .
thank you michelle .
i can see in here everybody .
thats loud .
i am i am unfortunately too close to my microphone .
especially when i get concerned that ive got bumped off again and i wa thinking they are going to boot me at the end of the show again they did a couple of show ago .
anyway i can not see the clock because ive got the trouble .
they are messing with u . thats .
it is it is free knowing that they are potentially doing i i do not want to believe that there this is we definitely have to be the big they they are messing they are messing with u too .
and every time i hear somebody say that i always i always have to go who who is they .
it is not here but it is also on tiktok a . it is the same standard argument about somebody i am not going to go into sovereign citizenship again but i do not know .
i watch a bunch of that stuff on tv and shes my god .
somebody told you that there this private account with a billion dollar in your name and because somebody told and they are going to laugh you out of there .
and god it is scary what people do not know .
and anyway yeah you guy got to find out about these crazy as passing planet that nobody know about that are here for a decade now .
and this is of course why i wa bringing up beekmans world because i have that one picture that say duh never ha been here for over ten year .
and it it amazes me that weve been watching this damn group of planet in the second star for going on fourteen fifteen year now and it is still not mainstream .
youve got to be kidding me .
and then we are seeing brand new spacecraft weve never seen before .
yeah yeah god those picture chris they are i am pretty sure you got some unusual new spacecraft in that shot .
we can investigate that and keep our eye open .
and i will try to find that one picture .
i did not see much when i wa outside .
i am excited to look at the picture .
yeah there wa a nasa release where they off the space station they released a picture of a ship .
and it went viral immediately .
and of course nobody ha and i saved a copy of it .
but there a ship with a back deck a platform you were on a boat .
and to me it it screamed that this is for space walk .
this is a deck that you can take your space suit and and then leap off that thing and leap back on to it according to these suit .
and they do not have to be tethered anymore because they got they have independent jet suit and stuff now .
and i am sure their suit are far better .
they have eleven layer and the damn thing weigh eighty pound .
i wa watching a thing on spacesuit the other day .
you can tell i do some crazy homework sometimes .
and look weve lost rebecca altogether .
maybe shes having the same .
i still have the trouble warning up .
it hasnt dropped .
and i shouldnt be able to talk but i apparently can .
try using chrome if this continues .
yeah i wa and i do not use chrome .
i use msn and bing .
and that could be that could be part of maybe thats why i can not use camera and microphone at the same time .
because i am not running off a chrome .
chrome is more of a laptop than pc .
and it is an average use in laptop use .
and if i would go to chrome it would be a pain in the butt to switch everything over .
i spent a couple of week trying to reget my link back together .
i already had enough trouble trying to get every day done let alone nerd .
and i am terrible about learning new computer crap .
window eight worked great .
now i am at window eleven and i am not happy with it .
it is more laid out for phone .
and it doesnt do it doe not serve a computer pc .
it may work on laptop i do not know .
but for the pc window eleven is far le usable .
window eight wa great .
you could do all kind of thing .
and window ten is god do i have to do it again ?
and window eleven it came mandatory and everything they were putting out in hp is shit i get no choice .
i can not buy a computer with window eight .
i can only buy a computer with window eleven .
and i am on my 15th computer .
yeah fifteen year fourteen year .
some year one year i replaced three computer .
one year .
because i bought two cheap one and one good one .
and then the next year and the next one went out and then another year or two of them went out .
i am i am way ahead on the curve .
and when you when you buy a cheap computer they are only going to last two year if you are lucky .
this is why i always recommend hp .
because hp last three to five year .
and i had my tech guy come in and he say yeah all your computer are only going to last three year .
i went christ what am i paying this money for ?
and i guess everybody else ha money and i do not .
them it is no biggie .
i am amazed that i am still here because the connection signal having trouble connecting is still up .
it ha not gone down .
i wonder if i shut facebook down and the tab .
msm tab window closed that down .
maybe itll clear up .
anyway i god i closed facebook and i should type to rebecca to see what shes up to. . she she wow he see me .
i want to .
she might be having trouble that i did .
this is weird .
. . i am on facebook .
it opened .
no it is not chat are not opening .
i am i am having bad internet service. . there it is .
i see all of you .
it is you .
i only i only see you and me .
shes not there on. . i sent the .
fine. . yeah .
she sent me a screenshot and big flare in the middle of it and yeah all three of u . and i do not see rebecca on my stream yard at all .
anyway since me fine and we are at the end of the show and weve gone i can not even see the clock anymore because this this symbol is in front of it .
this is the fourth on the show .
well wind up the show and everybody good night and then well see you again next week .
same bad time same bad channel and please drop u a line .
go to youtube watch this video leave a comment tomorrow .
we want to hear from you .
we want to hear your opinion .
i think we can do something better .
i want to hear it .
if you if you think we are doing bad let me know .
i do not take it personally .
ill take it a important but i will not take it personally .
and i guess well wind down .
and then ill go play star war .
sound fun .
i heard a loud sound rebecca in the bathroom .
i do not hear you now .
i do not know if shes talking or not .
bye chris .
thank you .
thank you everybody for showing up and well see you next week .
looking forward to it .
that wa fun .
nous somme le twenty six juin two thousand and twenty four .
three kg .
three kg ?
il fait two mtres zerofour pour one hundred and fifty kg .
on va prendre one hundred and fifty kg .
cest top .
soit twelveeighty four de la biomasse terrestre totale .
eighty twofifty four de la biomasse terrestre totale cest le plantes .
cest bien le champignons avec twotwenty pour twelve gigatonnes de carbone .
zerothirty seven de la biomasse terrestre totale .
fourmis insectes ?
cest pa one two cest one hundred .
welcome to tumble the show where we explore story of science discovery .
today in time for halloween weve got an episode all about cat .
ooh a spooky episode about halloween cat .
i do not know how spooooooky it is but it is about how we might have gotten cat all wrong .
and how science can help u understand our furry feline friend .
marshall you might remember that our last halloween episode wa about cat .
the mind control cat parasite ?
thats more about the parasite a toxoplasma gondii than the cat .
that it life inside ?
yes that one .
thats true .
but in the course of doing the episode we said something about cat that got a lot of attention from our listener who left review about it .
and i thought we could take this halloween episode to make amends .
marshall what i want you to do is channel all of your feeling about cat being evil .
yeah we got a lot of listener review about that because for some reason they think that cat are not evil .
you are digging a hole here marshall .
hopefully by the end of this episode well change your mind .
i want to set the record straight .
i enlisted the help of a cat scientist who can tell u why we got cat wrong and why they are not evil .
i think cat are amazing .
i asked michael whether she think cat deserve their evil halloweeny spooky reputation .
no i do not think cat are spooky .
to me i think people find cat maybe mysterious or hard to read .
i do not think that necessarily equates with spooky but obviously some people are afraid of cat .
i do not know why .
again i think that ha more to do with the human side of thing than the cat side of thing .
the problem is not cat it is me .
it is specifically me .
it is me hi i am the problem .
it is me and other human .
i think noted cat lover taylor swift would definitely agree with you .
is that what that song is about ?
i wanted to start by coming clean with michael about the reputation that weve gained from this .
here what happened when i read her a few of our many pro cat listener review .
i want to read for you a couple of the review that we got from actual kid .
they are the best .
did i write that email ?
i am sad that you think cat are evil and they are going to hurt you .
i have a cat named morning and shes nice and it hurt me .
please reconsider cat period are period not period evil exclamation point .
i do feel minorly conflicted that we hurt some of our listener feeling but cat can still be lovable despite being evil .
those thing are not connected .
you are going deeper on this .
the point is to apologize marshall .
they are small and they are cute and they are farina lovable and they are also evil. . i need to say this for you that you are allergic to cat and this is where your feeling come from .
i do not know if youve unearthed this in therapy yet but i am diagnosing you .
i should also say there is a pro mouse contingent out there that ha strong feeling on the subject .
a lot of people are allergic to cat .
a lot of people love mouse and bird but those thing do not need to stop u from being curious enough to learn the science behind our relationship with cat .
and thats what michael is here to teach u . michael study cat behavior and shes published two paper about way that we misunderstand cat called catastrophic myth .
and misconception about cat part one and two .
i love a scientist who punds .
in her paper michael writes that behavior that we may see a sign of evilness or meanness are cat responding to what their human are doing .
maybe i am the one who mean .
is that what we are saying here ?
it sound we might need a little help understanding what cat need .
but why are cat mysterious about it ?
because with dog you always know how they feel and also some of them can talk .
whats the deal with cat ?
some of them can .
i think the problem is you do not understand animal at all .
because a dog ha never talked to you. . michael told me that part of our problem in understanding cat is how we are always comparing them to dog .
we do not talk about why are cat different from hamster ?
but it is always why are cat different from dog ?
we expect them to be the same because they are both very popular and they are very different specie .
shes saying that because we put dog and cat in the same thats a pet we have category doesnt mean that we should compare them a better or worse than the other .
it is comparing apple to orange but why would we compare apple and orange ?
we eat them both a lot but they are different .
the question of why cat and dog are different ha to do with how they came to live with u in our home or scientifically speaking how they were domesticated .
in other word weve bred dog for thousand of year to have specific trait that are useful for u . we bred some dog be hunting dog or guard dog or my favorite dog the kind that sits in your lap .
and michael told me that dog have been domesticated for much longer than cat thousand of year longer .
weve had time to develop these trait and dog that make u relate to them .
but even their facial feature that might make them look a little more human to u ?
their ability to smile their ability to raise their eyebrow .
these are thing that we do not see in cat .
weve bred dog that they smile and raise their eyebrow we did that on purpose .
i do not know about specifically breeding for a cute little eyebrow raise .
but it is something that make them feel a little bit more human our best friend .
and a cute a cat are there still something a little wild in their face .
a a result people look at a cat and they do not see a human looking back at them necessarily .
they do not see a smile .
they do not see a frown or a raised eyebrow .
we see a blank slate and then we start trying to fill in that blank .
when i think a cat is staring at me because it is wondering if it is big enough to kill me and eat me thats probably not true .
it is definitely not doing that .
instead of assuming that the cat is relaxed and enjoying looking out the window or is happy that we are there .
no people go to i think the cat mad at me or i think the cat think i am a jerk or or or .
michael is saying that cat are not plotting against u or secretly scheming to take over the world .
and youll know it if they were .
if these thing were possible cat would definitely have taken over the world by now .
honestly based on looking at cat behavior how do we know that they havent already taken over the world ?
everything thats meaningful to them ha already been conquered .
they stay inside all day .
they get all the food that they want by asking for it and they sleep twenty two hour a day .
that sound someone who running the world .
indeed. . now that weve learned i think why cat are misunderstood the science is also showing that cat do care about their human .
there been a lot of research looking at do cat miss you when you are gone ?
the answer is yes .
do they recognize when we are concerned or upset ?
and the answer is yes .
hold on .
i thought michael said that we can not even read cat expression .
are there study that tell u what go on in those itty bitty kitty brain ?
and more importantly science can tell u how to make our cat ruler happy .
well get into all the cat science after we press pause to take a quick break .
we are back and it is time to find out how science get inside the convoluted mind of cat .
i do not even think it wa possible to get a cat to stop sitting on you or to get them to the vet .
how on earth did people get cat to participate in a study ?
michael say that science come to the cat .
of course it doe .
cat do not do that in a sterile unfamiliar environment .
it is very hard to study their behavior in a laboratory .
yeah sound world ruler behavior to me again .
yes your majesty .
we brought our humble science to your regal abode .
please will you help u ?
please descend off your cat condo and let u lay these gift at your foot .
of course .
but i do not know are they barging into the cat house with a bunch of test tube ?
i feel thats not going to go for the scientist .
the experiment michael told me are about determining cat preference or cat preference .
all this is getting started is not it ?
the first half wa a warm up .
how do they study cat preference ?
thanks marshall .
the scientist start with a question about what cat because understanding what cat can it help people have more positive interaction with cat ?
but a far a a specific research question you always start with some broad idea and then you formulate maybe a specific hypothesis .
i think if we do this that cat will do that .
and this idea or hypothesis wa about how cat prefer to be petted by their human .
the cat human were even able to participate in the study .
theyd identified four different part of the body and then they had people pet them and they would know whether or not the cat showed positive and negative behavior .
or positive and negative behavior .
come on .
that study found that cat prefer to be petted on the face .
the area between their ear and their eye the forehead and the cheek .
and they least being handled on whats called the caudal region or thats the base of the tail .
thats the lower back where the tail meet the body .
the caudal region around the base of the tail thats a butt ?
it is more the end of their back. . and because the cat in the study preferred preferred those area it doesnt mean that all cat love being petted on their face or that no cat being petted on the caudal region .
they looked at a sample of cat .
they could not test every single cat in the world .
from this data can we say that every single cat love to have their cheek rubbed and hate having the base of their tail touched ?
no. . it is a pretty simple study but doe it help u learn how to behave with our own individual cat or maybe a friend cat ?
it is a good place to start .
and from there we can learn more about what each cat like .
what should i do when i meet a new cat ?
if i am going to pet them i should pet them on the forehead or the cheek and see how they do rather than go for the base of the tail .
do not start with the caudal region .
it is a risky spot .
if we are sensitive in different place than we are our hand are sensitive .
which is why we petting all the fluffiest dog and cat in bunny and other fluffy thing .
and maybe we even try to kiss them .
we want to pet and kiss everything cute in the world ?
whether it is a baby or a puppy or a cat .
we want to pick them up and i love you .
that is what we sound is not it ?
and thats terrifying .
i wonder if thats the problem .
yeah i do not think that they would want to see our big lip snacker coming up their face .
i guess when you think about it i want to eat you up is a pretty serious threat .
and maybe thats why when cat have cat friend they bump into each other and keep walking .
when we approach them thinking that they human type of handling and this is the thing with dog too ?
because people want to hug dog and there been some research suggesting that dog do not love being hugged .
and if you tell people that they get offended it hurt our feeling if our pet do not the thing we .
but thats the reality .
it is a harsh reality but i guess a necessary one to learn .
another thing that cat do not prefer .
michael told me most cat do not wearing halloween costume .
wait they did a scientific study about that ?
no they did not .
but michael observed enough cat in costume to know that it displeases them .
and she say she ha some halloween cat advice for everybody .
i am begging you all please do not put a costume on your cat .
it impedes their movement .
it can impede their ability to see if you have something on their head .
unfortunately some of the thing we love doing with cat are not thing that they to have done to them .
we have to think about how doe this feel to my cat to be picked up and carried around ?
they are they to have their paw on the ground .
the thing that we do hugging and kissing might not be how they normally communicate .
and we have to keep that in mind that we have better interaction with them .
i guess if we learn what cat want we can treat them the way that they want to be treated .
and then theyll be nice to u and maybe not eat u . they definitely will not eat u . for michael a a lifelong cat lover the process of studying cat mean that she can always learn more about her fascinating feline friend .
it is been helpful to not only better understand animal behavior but better understand how to learn if i have more question in the future which there always more question .
speaking of more question i did have one last very important question for michael .
since we have unjustly implied that cat might be evil .
i think it is further than an implication in my case .
i asked michael how should we apologize ?
and what did she say ?
and doe it involve tuna fish ?
i think at the start of every future episode you should say that cat are great .
every episode .
for the rest of your life .
the show where we explore story of science discovery and also cat are great .
thats perfect .
all message received .
to all of our kitty companion and to all of our listener i have accused cat of being evil because it seemed a funny halloween joke .
but to some of you it wa not funny .
in fact it wa a cat astrophic thing to say .
cat are magnificent noble creature worthy of respect and dignity and they look especially regal when they are riding on roombas .
we are very sorry .
we are very sorry .
i think youve made reasonable amends .
all ive always wanted to write a good apology letter and i wrote it all by myself .
i did not even have to rely on cat gpt .
that wouldnt make sense to see cat a the human idea of good or evil anyway .
yeah they are being their truest cat self peacefully existing staring out the window relaxing in the sun gloating over the fact that theyve already taken over the world .
now that youve learned how scientist study pet preference try doing your own study with your own cat or team up with a friend who ha a cat .
choose a room and divide it up into four area .
you can mark them with tape or even move the furniture .
put a different cat activity or treat in each of the area and start a timer and let your cat go into the room .
then make some observation .
which activity or treat doe your cat go to first ?
which area do they spend the most time in ?
what conclusion or cat conclusion can you make ?
it is a great way to understand the cat perspective .
thank you marshall .
thanks today to dr. michael maria delgado cat behaviorist .
here more from our interview with michael on the special bonus interview episode thats available to patreon member who pledge at the one level or higher at patreon.com .
well also have more free resource to learn about cat science on our website at sciencepodcastforkids.com .
and if you want to tell u that you think our apology wa sufficient or maybe tell u other nice thing about the podcast go ahead and leave a review for the show with the help of a parent or guardian on apple podcasts .
we do read them all .
this material is based upon work supported by the national science foundation under grant number two million four hundred and fifteen thousand five hundred and seventy five culturally situated stem podcast for kid .
special thanks to our research and cultural editorial team dr. remy do yasmin kattricheo nuria net and laura ordonez .
sarah robertson lent is our managing editor in design the episode art .
gary calhoun james is our engineer and mixer .
mikhail richardson wrote this episode .
and i am lindsay patterson and i am the senior editor and producer of this show .
and i am marshless gamiya and i made all the music and sound design for this episode .
tumble is a production of tumble medium .
thanks for listening and stay tuned for more story of science discovery .
you are listening to brain on where we are serious about being curious .
brain on is supported in part by a grant from the national science foundation .
if only anyone knew what it wa to be me a misunderstood vampire bat .
i am sorry i couldnt help but overhear you .
a very misunderstood one .
why misunderstood ?
it is my name .
people hear the word vampire and they run away screaming or throw garlic at me .
love how garlic smell thats not bad .
but still no one understands what it is to be me .
at least a little .
who are you anyway ?
the name squid .
you mean you also have vampire in your name ?
i never thought id see the day .
the day is here vampire bat .
you are not alone anymore and i think we could make beautiful music together .
and then molly the squid and bat break out into a song .
because it is a musical and it is going to be simply spying tingling .
the song working title is i am not a monster .
it go something this .
mr. bonejankles id love to hear more about the new musical you are working on .
squidler on the roof ?
yes. . your new musical squidler on the roof .
but i have to go tape an episode now .
think on it .
i only need a few more investor for a shot at broadway .
you are listening to brain on from apm studio .
i am molly bloom and my cohost is quinn from rosemount minnesota .
it is october the time of year when we to have a little creepy halloweeny fun .
we decided to do an episode all about vampire .
quinn what come to mind when i say vampire ?
vampire i know that they are not real but vampire story creep me out .
have you seen vampire movie heard vampire story ?
what vampire have you heard about ?
ive heard about dracula definitely .
yeah it is a little creepy to imagine a creature with fang that want to suck our blood .
have you encountered any other bloodsucking creature mosquito or tick ?
whenever me and my family have gone camping weve seen mosquito and tick a lot .
yeah minnesota we love mosquito .
i shouldnt say we love mosquito .
whats your favorite remedy to get over the itchiness ?
we have this thing at home called the bug bite thing and it suck all the juice out of your bug bite and it make it itch not at all .
that sound amazing .
my daughter been putting toothpaste on her. . bug bite and she swears by it .
i havent tried it yet but shes mom youve got to try this .
the little toothpaste and it work .
i usually take ice to it or cross it with my fingernail .
yeah ive done that too .
that hurt and then it still itch .
it is not the best .
tell me do you love halloween thing ?
yes i love halloween .
at home we love to decorate the house for halloween .
and this year since i love broadway i am going to be elphaba from the broadway musical wiccan .
and there a movie coming out of that too .
are you pretty excited ?
yeah i am excited .
elphaba tell me how you are going to do the costume .
we bought a witch costume and then we bought a green face paint stick and we are going to paint my face green .
yeah because her main thing is that she ha green skin .
you have to do all your skin .
thats going to be fun .
and then in minnesota sometimes you have to plan for a coat or something because sometimes it is cold for trick or treating .
you have a coat plan that you can work into your costume .
my costume is all long sleeved perfect .
but other year ive had to wear coat and snow pant underneath my costume .
one year i dressed a a quilt for halloween .
because it wa cold .
and my normal costume wasnt going to work .
thats one way to get around it i guess .
they are a made up legend thats been around for over a thousand year .
there are story of vampire creature all throughout history .
from ancient greece to china to medieval europe .
there are lot of different version in some of the story .
vampire have pale skin and sharp teeth called fang .
sometimes they are super strong .
and some legend say that sunlight weakens a vampire .
they sleep during the day and only come out at night .
in other story vampire can turn themselves into a bat or a wolf .
these are only story but people have been fascinated with the idea of vampire for a very long time .
you can find them in all kind of book tv show and movie dracula .
the count from sesame street .
thats one .
one bat two two bat .
three three fabulous flyer .
or vampirina a cartoon about a vampire kid who sings in a band called the ghoul girl .
or even one of my favorite book benicula .
it is about a vampire bunny that suck the juice out of vegetable .
it is cute .
since vampire are not real today we are going to turn our attention to blood sucker that do exist .
there are lot of them and they are super fascinating .
some of them youve probably heard of mosquito tick and louse .
but others might surprise you .
yes one tiny finch in the galapagos island peck at the skin of seabird and then lap up the blood .
there also a fish that life in the amazon river in south america .
it is called the toothpick fish .
this little fish sneak under the gill of a bigger fish .
and then you guessed it it drink it blood .
blood might not sound tasty to u but it is got vitamin and nutrient .
thats why many different animal drink it .
today we are going to get to know one of these blood sucking creature .
maybe one of the most famous one out there .
vampire bat live in central and south america from mexico all the way down to chile .
and get this vampire bat are the only mammal that survives entirely on blood .
that might sound creepy but vampire bat are cool creature .
to learn more we talked with someone who know a lot about them .
i am a vampire bat researcher and i work at the ohio state university .
mae ha spent year studying vampire bat in panama .
panama is a long narrow country that connects north and south america a land bridge .
and it ha a lot of vampire bat .
these baddie are pretty small about the size of a lemon .
they have fluffy soft brown body leathery wing and big pointy ear that stick straight up .
their face are also super wrinkly a raisin .
mae say that every vampire bat ha a unique face human .
they have very distinct face .
and for the people who love them they look very different .
and you can even tell them apart by their face .
how they hunt is also super cool .
picture this .
the sun ha set and it is getting dark outside .
vampire bat are starting to come out .
they are popping their head out of cave and other hidey hole .
one little bat sniff something with her powerful nose and she hears something too .
shes looking for a cow pig or other large animal whose blood she can sip .
our bat friend find an animal by sniffing around for it smell and listening for it breathing .
then mae say the bat land on the ground .
first of all vampire bat are unusual for bat because they can walk .
they fly .
they often approach their prey flying .
but then they can land on the ground and they use their elongated thumb to walk or even run on the ground .
and by doing that they can land on an animal or nearby and approach them very stealthily .
vampire bat can walk on their thumb .
and sometimes they even hop little rabbit .
but even though they are called vampire bat they do not suck out the blood .
they have a different way of getting it. . once our bat buddy find a cow or other big animal she make a tiny cut with her teeth and lap up the blood .
here the cool thing .
her spit ha a special chemical in it that keep the cut from hurting the animal .
you do not have to be afraid of vampire bat .
they hardly ever bite human .
and even though vampire bat sometimes get a bad rap may say there are many fascinating and surprising thing about these creature how they have best friend .
most bat are social but vampire bat take that to the next level .
they are incredibly social .
and in these friendship they are they hang out close to each other grooming and cleaning one another .
vampire bat are affectionate towards each other .
they spend a huge amount of time hanging out hugging essentially with their wing wrapped around each other .
vampire bat besties even call back and forth to each other .
may shared a recording of these bat call with u . bat make sound that are highpitched .
it is hard for our human ear to hear them .
but if we are going to be able to hear them we can hear the noise they make .
check it out .
i bet they are talking about how they are best friend .
they probably have friendship bracelet and secret bat handshake .
may say friendship and cooperation are important for vampire bat .
bat friend even share food with each other and can save each others life .
it is hard to be a vampire bat .
blood is not a great food .
it is hard to store fat if you are eating blood .
and if bat miss a meal they can be in real danger because they can starve after only three day of not eating .
if a bat come back to the roost and it is hungry it hasnt eaten it is best friend will share their own food with the other bat and can save their life that way .
thats true friendship .
may say vampire bat are super cool creature that deserve our respect and care .
i think we are often afraid of animal we do not understand .
and vampire bat live such different life than u . and i think because of that they feel alien to u . but because we do not understand something doesnt mean we can not admire and respect it .
they are beautiful .
they are amazing .
they are fascinating and they can teach u a lot if we if we learn from them and pay attention to them .
and i think they are deserving of our attention .
we are going to talk about another amazing creature with vampire in it name in a moment but first take a bite out of this quinn .
it is time for the .
what do you think ?
i think it is someone in a pool going under water and screaming into the microphone .
i think you are .
thats exactly what thats very halloweeny do not you think ?
yeah i love it .
let hear it one more time .
what do you think ?
i am going to stick with my guest for now because i hear all the people in the background and then i hear the person taking the breath to go under water .
we are going to hear it again .
get another chance to guess and hear the answer after the credit at the end of the show .
if you are enjoying this video and are looking for more brain on check out our podcast .
we got brain on smash boom best forever go and moment of available wherever you get your podcast .
and if you are craving even more curious content then our smartypass program is perfect for you .
enjoy exclusive access to ad free episode bonus episode special discount on event and merchandise and a unique thank you gift delivered to your doorstep .
all this for three ninety nine a month or saved with an annual subscription for only thirty six dollar .
visit smartypass.org today and thank you for supporting our show .
you are listening to brain on from apm studio .
today we are talking all about nature vampire animal that feed on blood .
we heard about how vampire bat drink blood from big animal cow and pig .
and they also have best friend who cuddle with each other and share food .
but there another vampire creature who life in the deep ocean the vampire squid .
they are neither squid nor vampire .
plot twist .
yes they are related to squid but they are a different creature .
and get this they do not drink blood .
they are named after vampire because they have webbed arm that look a fictional vampire cape .
and they sometimes look the color of blood .
why do you love vampire squid much ?
thank you for asking .
in honor of their eight arm here are the top eight reason to love vampire squid .
number one their survivor .
they live in the deep ocean where there not a lot of oxygen and not a lot of food .
what do they eat ?
that brings me to reason number two .
unlike actual squid these gentle creature are not hunter .
they eat marine snow .
it can snow underwater .
no it is way grosser than that .
marine snow is what scientist call the tiny bit of dead sea creature rotting plant poop and mucus that drift down to the ocean floor .
i will not be making a snowman out of that .
but here reason number three .
vampire squid do make snowball out of marine snow except some scientist call these ball mucus dumpling .
they have two long skinny tentacle in addition to their eight arm .
these tentacle are covered in mucus .
they stick out their tentacle .
the marine snow get stuck to it and make a dumpling .
wow. . still stuck on the name mucus dumpling .
reason number four .
vampire squid have lot of little spike on the underside of their webbed arm .
they can protect themselves by pulling their arm up over their body .
and when they do they look spiky pineapple .
great for keeping predator away .
do they squirt out ink other squid ?
and the answer is reason number five .
instead of ink they squirt out bioluminescent mucus .
but this time it glow .
since it is dark in the deep ocean black ink wouldnt help hide them from predator .
but glowing mucus does. . if we are going to talk about mucus the glowing kind is pretty cool .
reason number six .
they have giant gorgeous eye .
they can regrow their limb if they get injured .
reason number eight .
they have beautiful singing voice .
the old jar get unhinged sometimes .
and we are trying to tape an episode here .
sorry to interrupt molly but i thought you and quinn would want to hear the opening number to my new musical .
squidler on the roof .
the scene i wa telling you about before. . the one where a misunderstood vampire bat meet a friendly vampire squid .
exactly the one .
i finished the demo tape and in my humble opinion it is a bone a fine masterpiece .
id love to hear it .
me too .
roll that demo tape mr. bonejangles .
who are you anyway ?
the name squid .
you mean you also have vampire in your name ?
i never thought id see the day .
the day is here vampire bat .
you are not alone anymore .
and i think we could make beautiful music together .
but i confess plant are not for me .
they are not your cup of tea .
my preference is a little bit more to blood type a or b. taken delicately .
excuse u . we want to live our life .
we are sick of this rotten publicity .
we need our own story if we are gon na thrive for animal .
some folk will get the creep about monster squid in the deep .
but i only eat marine snow .
a it drift by down below .
the vampire myth is to blame .
we are feared but thats our name .
we want you human to know .
thats why we are telling you .
excuse u . we want to live our life .
we are sick of this rotten publicity .
we need our own story if we are gon na thrive for animal .
vampire are fictional story dracula or the count from sesame street .
but there are ton of real animal that drink blood .
they are the only mammal that survive entirely on blood .
and they have best friend who cuddle with each other and share food .
there also the vampire squid .
but it doe other cool stuff eating mucus dumpling and squirting out glowing ink .
thats it for this episode of brain on .
this episode wa written by shayla farzhan and molly bloom with production help from anna wegel .
it wa edited by sandin totten .
fact checking by jess miller .
we had engineering help from josh savage o with sound design by rachel breeze .
original theme music by mark sanchez .
we had production help from the rest of the brain on universe team .
rosie dupont and a goldfield .
ruby guthrie .
beth perlman is our executive producer and the executive in charge of apm studio are chandra gavatti and joanne griffith .
special thanks to may dixon nick ward and aaron ward .
brain on is a nonprofit public radio program .
there are lot of way to support the show .
subscribe to brain on universe on youtube where you can watch animated version of some of your favorite episode .
or head to brainson.org .
while you are there you can send u mystery sound drawing and question .
speaking of mystery sound are you ready to hear it again ?
all let hear it .
any new thought sticking with your original answer ?
what do you think ?
i do not have any new thought .
i think i am going to stick with what i have .
remind u what it wa .
it wa that someone is in a pool and then they go under the water and then they scream into the microphone .
i am ready to know if you are .
let hear the answer .
hi my name is rhea and i am from bethesda maryland .
that wa the sound of me screaming underwater .
my gosh quinn .
that wa good .
you are exactly .
normally at home i get partial credit .
i get them half but i got it .
one hundred percent .
i am very this is a very impressive mystery sound .
i do not i hope whatever they used to record it is fine .
they had a cool underwater recorder i guess .
it is pretty awesome .
do you ever go underwater and try to talk to somebody you can try to make out what they are saying ?
it is tough .
yeah it is .
thanks for listening .
the following is a conversation with elon musk dj sa matthew mcdougal bliss chapman and nolan arbaugh about neuralink and the future of humanity .
elon dj matthew and bliss are of course part of the amazing neuralink team .
and nolan is the first human to have a neuralink device implanted in his brain .
i speak with each of them individually .
use timestamps to jump around or a i recommend go hardcore .
and listen to the whole thing .
this is the longest podcast ive ever done .
it is a fascinating super technical and wide ranging conversation .
and i loved every minute of it .
and now dear friend here elon musk his fifth time on this the lex friedman podcast .
drinking coffee or water ?
i am over caffeinated now .
there a nitro drink .
this will keep you up to tomorrow afternoon .
what is nitro ?
it is got a lot of caffeine or something .
it is called nitro .
do you need to know anything else ?
thats ridiculous .
what we breathe is seventy eight nitrogen anyway .
what do you need to add more ?
. . most people think that they are breathing oxygen and they are breathing seventy eight nitrogen .
from ... from clockwork orange .
is that top three kubrick film for you ?
clockwork orange it is pretty good .
it is demanded .
. . first let step back and big congrats on getting your link implanted into a human .
thats a historic step for your link .
and there many more to come .
we obviously have our second implant a . how did that go ?
it look weve got i think on the order of four hundred electrode that are providing signal .
how quickly do you think the number of human participant will scale ?
it depends on someone on the regulatory approval the rate at which we get regulatory approval .
we are hoping to do ten by the end of this year .
total of ten .
eight more .
and with each one you are going to be learning a lot of lesson about the neurobiology the brain the everything the whole chain of the neuro link the decoding the signal processing all that stuff .
i think it is obviously going to get better with each one .
i do not want to jinx it but it seems to have gone extremely with the second implant .
there a lot of signal a lot of electrode .
what improvement do you think well see in your link in the coming let say let get crazy in the coming year ?
in year it is going to be gigantic .
because well increase the number of electrode dramatically well improve the signal processing .
we with even with only roughly i do not know ten fifteen of the electrode working with nolan with our first patient we were able to get to achieve a bit per second .
thats twice the world record .
i think well start vastly exceeding the world record by order of magnitude in the year to come .
it is getting to i do not know one hundred bit per second onezero maybe if you say five year now it might be a megabit .
faster than any human could possibly communicate by typing or speaking .
yeah that bps is an interesting metric to measure .
there might be a big leap in the experience once you reach a certain level of bps .
entire new way of interacting with a computer might be unlocked .
and with human .
with other human .
provided they have and you are linked to. . otherwise they will not be able to absorb the signal fast enough .
do you think theyll improve the quality of intellectual discourse ?
i think you could think of it if you were to slow down communication how do you feel about that ?
if you do not need to talk let say one tenth of normal speed youd be wow thats agonizingly slow .
now imagine you could speak communicate clearly at ten or one hundred or onezero time faster than normal .
listen i am pretty sure nobody in their mind listens to me at 1x they listen at 2x .
i can only imagine what 10x would feel or i can understand it .
i usually default to one.5x .
you can do 2x but if i am listening to somebody in fifteen twenty minute once they go to sleep then ill do it one.5x .
if i am paying attention ill do 2x. . but if you start listen to podcasts or audio book or anything if you get used to doing it at one.five then one sound painfully slow .
i am still holding on to one because i am afraid .
i am afraid of myself becoming bored with the reality with the real world where everyones speaking at 1x .
to a person you could speak very fast .
we can communicate very quickly .
and also if you use a wide range of if your vocabulary is larger your bit rate effective bit rate is higher .
thats a good way to put it .
the effective bit rate .
that is the question is how much information is compressed in the little bit transfer of language ?
yeah if there a single word that is able to convey something that would normally require under ten simple word then youve got a maybe a 10x compression on your hand .
and thats with meme .
it conveys a whole there a similar simultaneously hit with a wide range of symbol that you can interpret .
and it is you get it faster than if it were word or a simple picture .
and of course you are referring to meme broadly idea .
yeah there an entire idea structure that is an idea template .
and then you can add something to that idea template .
but somebody ha that preexisting idea template in their head .
when you add that incremental bit of information you are conveying much more than if you said a few word it is everything associated with that meme .
you think therell be emergent leap of capability ?
you scaled the number of electrode ?
therell be a certain do you think therell be actual number where it the human experience will be altered ?
what do you think that number might be ?
whether electrode or bps .
we of course do not know for sure but is this tenzero or one hundredzero ?
certainly if you are anywhere at tenzero bit per second thats vastly faster than any human can communicate now .
if you think of the what is the average bit per second of a human ?
it is le than one bit per second over the course of a day because there are eighty sixfour hundred second in a day and you do not communicate eighty sixfour hundred token in a day .
therefore your bit per second is le than one average over twenty four hour .
it is quite slow .
and now even if you are communicating very quickly and you are you are talking to somebody who understands what you are saying because in order to communicate you have to at least to some degree a model the mind state of the person to whom you are speaking .
then take the concept you are trying to convey compress that into a small number of syllable speak them and hope that the other person decompresses them into a conceptual structure that is a close to what you have in your mind a possible .
there a lot of single loss there in that process .
very lossy compression and decompression .
and a lot of the a lot of what your neuron are doing is distilling the concept down to a small number of symbol of say syllable that i am speaking or keystroke whatever the case may be .
thats a lot of what your brain computation is doing .
in the process of compression you are distilling sound to what matter the most because you can only say a few thing .
that is perhaps helpful .
i think well probably get if our data rate increase it is highly probable that it will become far more verbose .
your computer when computer had my first computer had 8k of ram you thought about every byte .
and now youve got computer with many gigabyte of ram .
if you wan na do an iphone app that say hello world it is probably i do not know several megabyte minimum with a bunch of fluff but nonetheless we still prefer to have the computer with the more memory and more compute .
the longterm aspiration of neuralink is to improve the ai human symbiosis by increasing the bandwidth of the communication .
because even in the most benign scenario of ai you have to consider that the ai is simply gon na get bored waiting for you to spit out a few word .
if the ai can communicate it to terabit per second and you are communicating it bit per second it is talking to a tree .
it is a very interesting question for a super intelligent specie .
what use are human ?
i think there is some argument for human a a source of will .
yeah source of will or purpose .
if you consider the human mind a being essentially there the primitive limbic element which even reptile have and there the cortex the thinking and planning part of the brain .
now the cortex is much smarter than the limbic system and yet it is largely in service to the limbic system .
it is trying to make the limbic system happy .
the sheer amount of compute thats gone into people trying to get laid is insane .
without seeking procreation they are trying to do the simple motion .
and they get a kick out of it .
this simple which in the abstract rather absurd motion which is sex the cortex is putting massive amount of compute into trying to figure out how to do that .
ninety of distributed computer the human specie is spent on trying to get laid probably .
there no purpose to most sex except hedonistic .
it is a joy or whatever .
it is a dopamine release .
now once in a while it is procreation but for human it is mostly modern human it is mostly recreational .
and the cortex much smarter than your limbic system is trying to make the limbic system happy because limbic system want to have sex .
or once some tasty food or whatever the case may be .
and then that is then further augmented by the tertiary system which is your phone your laptop ipad whatever or your computing stuff thats your tertiary layer .
you have this tertiary compute layer which is in the form of your computer with all the application all your compute device .
and in the getting laid front there a massive amount of digital compute also trying to get laid .
with tinder and whatever .
yeah the compute that we human have built is also participating .
yeah there gigawatts of compute going into getting laid of digital compute .
what if agi wa this is happening a we speak .
if we merge with ai it is gon na expand the compute that we human use to try to get laid .
it is one of the thing certainly yeah .
but what i am saying is that yes whats is there a use for human ?
there this fundamental question of whats the meaning of life why do anything at all ?
yeah it seems the will is not about the limbic system .
there a lot of interesting complicated thing in there .
we also want power .
thats limbic too i think .
but then we also want to in a cooperative way alleviate the suffering in the world .
not everybody doe but yeah sure .
a a group of human when we get together we start to have this collective intelligence that is more complex in it will than the underlying individual descendent of ape .
there other motivation .
and that could be a interesting source of an objective function for agi .
yeah there there are these fairly cerebral or higher level goal .
for me it is whats the meaning of life for understanding the nature of the universe is of great interest to me .
and hopefully to the ai .
and thats the mission of xai and grock is to understand the universe .
do you think people when you have a neural link with tenzero one hundredzero channel most of the use case will be communication with the ai system ?
our second product is called blindside which is to enable people who are completely blind lost both eye or optic nerve or can not see at all to be able to see by directly triggering the neuron in the visual cortex .
we are starting at the basic here .
this is very the simple stuff relatively speaking is solving neuron damage .
you can also solve i think probably schizophrenia if people have seizure of some kind probably solve that .
it could help with memory .
there a a tech tree if you will you got the basic .
you need literacy before you can have lord of the rings. . got it .
word then eventually you get saga .
i think there there may be some thing to worry about in the future but the first several year are solving basic neurological damage .
for people who have essentially complete or near complete loss of from the brain to the body stephen hawking would be an example the neural link would be incredibly profound .
cause you can imagine if stephen hawking could communicate a fast a we are communicating perhaps faster .
and thats certainly possible .
probable in fact likely id say .
there a dual track of medical and nonmedical meaning everything youve talked about could be applied to people who are nondisabled in the future .
the logical thing to do is sensible thing to do is to solving basic neuron damage issue .
cause the there obviously some risk with the new device .
you can not get the risk down to zero possible .
you wan na have the highest possible reward given that given there a certain irreducible risk .
and if somebody able to have a profound improvement in their communication thats worth the risk .
a you get the risk down .
yeah a you get the risk down once the risk is down to if you have thousand of people that have been using it for per year and the risk is minimal then perhaps at that point you could consider saying let aim for augmentation .
now i think we are gon na aim for augmentation with people who have neuron damage .
we are not aiming to give people a communication data rate equivalent to normal human .
we are aiming to give people who have quadriplegic or maybe have complete loss of the connection to the brain and body a communication data rate that exceeds normal human .
we are in there why not ?
and the same for vision .
a you restore vision there could be aspect of that restoration that are superhuman .
yeah at first the vision restoration will be low re .
because you have to say how many neuron can you put in there and trigger ?
and then over time i think you get to higher resolution than human eye and you could also see in different wavelength .
jordy lafloage from star trek the thing you could do you wan na see in radar ?
you can see ultraviolet infrared eagle vision whatever you want .
do you think therell be let me ask joe rogan question .
do you think thatll be i recently taken ayahuasca .
technically it is .
have you tried gmt bro ?
have you said much about it ?
ill spill the bean .
it wa a truly incredible experience .
they were telling the table on you .
you are in the jungle .
yeah amongst the tree myself .
yeah i mustve been crazy .
and the shaman yeah yeah yeah .
with the insect with the animal all around you jungle a far a i can see .
thats the way to do it .
thing are gon na look pretty wild .
yeah pretty wild .
i think an extremely high dose .
you havent lived unless you made love to an anaconda .
but it is some ladder .
yeah it wa i took extremely high dose of nine cup .
damn that sound a lot .
of course is normal dose one cup or ?
one or two usually one .
wait off the bat or do you work your way up to it ?
i i think you jumped at the deep end .
across two day because then the first day i took two and i it wa a ride but it wasnt quite a ... it wasnt a revelation .
it wasnt into deep space type of ride .
it wa a little airplane ride .
i go and saw some tree and some visuals and all that .
but ... nine cup you went to pluto i think .
one of the interesting aspect of my experience is i wa i thought i would have some demon some stuff to work through .
thats what people ... thats what everyone say .
thats what everyone say yeah exactly .
i had nothing i had all positive .
i do not think i do not know .
but i kept thinking about it had extremely high resolution .
thought about the people i know in my life you were there .
and it is not from my relationship with that person but a the person themselves i had this deep gratitude of who they are .
thats cool .
it wa this exploration .
sims or whatever you get to watch them .
i got to watch people and be in awe of how amazing they are .
it sound awesome .
it is great .
i wa waiting for ... whens the demon coming ?
maybe ill have some negative thought .
nothing nothing .
i had extreme gratitude for them .
and then also a lot of space travel .
space travel to where ?
here what it wa .
it wa people the human being that i know they had this the best way to describe it is they had a glow to them .
and then i kept flying out from them to see earth to see our solar system to see our galaxy .
and i saw that light that glow all across the universe. . that whatever that form is whatever that ... did you go past the milky way ?
you were intergalactic .
yeah intergalactic .
but always pointing in .
yeah past the milky way past ... i saw a huge number of galaxy intergalactic and all of it wa glowing .
but i couldnt control that travel because i would explore near distance to the solar system see if there alien or any of that stuff .
no i did not know .
implication of alien because they were glowing .
they were glowing in the same way that human were glowing that life force that i wa seeing .
the thing that made human amazing wa there throughout the universe .
there wa these glowing dot .
it made me feel there is life no not life but something whatever make human amazing all throughout the universe .
sound good .
i looked for the demon there no demon .
there were dragon and they are pretty ... the thing about tree ... wa there anything scary at all ?
but they werent scary they were front they were protective .
no it wa more a game of throne dragon .
they werent very friendly they were very big .
the thing is about giant tree at night which is where i wa .
the jungle scary .
the tree started to look dragon and they were all looking at me .
and it did not seem scary they seemed they were protecting me .
and the shaman and the people did not speak any english by the way which made it even scary .
i guess we are not even we are world apart in many way .
it ... but yeah there wa no ... they talk about the mother of the forest protecting you and thats what i felt .
and you are way out in the jungle .
way out .
this is not a tourist tree .
ten mile outside of a freeway or something .
no this is not a ... you are in deep amazon .
me and this guy named paul rosalink who is tarzan he life in the jungle we went out deep and we went crazy .
wow cool .
anyway can i get that same experience in a new york link ?
probably yeah .
i guess that is the question for nondisabled people .
do you think that there a lot in our perception in our experience of the world that could be explored that could be played with using new york ?
yeah new york is ... it is a generalized input output device .
it is it is reading electrical signal and generating electrical signal .
and everything that youve ever experienced in your whole life smell emotion all of those are electrical signal .
it is weird to think that your entire life experience to still down to electrical signal for neuron but that is in fact the case .
or thats at least what all the evidence point to .
you could you could trigger the neuron you could trigger a particular scent you could certainly make thing glow .
do you put much anything ?
you could you can think of the brain a a biological computer .
if there are certain say chip or element of that biological computer that are broken let say your ability to if youve got a stroke that if youve had a stroke that mean youve got some part of your brain is damaged .
if that let say it is a speech generation or the ability to move your left hand thats the thing that a neural link could solve .
if it is if youve got a massive amount of memory loss thats gone we can not go we can not get the memory back .
we could restore your ability to make memory but we can not restore memory that are fully gone .
now i should say if you maybe if part of the memory is there and the mean of accessing the memory is the part thats broken then we could reenable the part the ability to access the memory .
but you can think of it ram in your in a computer if if the ram is destroyed or your sd card is destroyed we can not get that back but if the connection to the sd card is destroyed we can fix that .
if it is fixable physically then yeah then it can be fixed .
of course with ai you can you can repair photograph and fill in missing part of photograph maybe you can do the same .
yeah you could say create the most probable set of memory based on the all information you have about that person you could then probably it would be probabilistic restoration of memory .
now we are getting pretty esoteric here .
but that is one of the most beautiful aspect of the human experience is remembering the good memory .
we we live most of our life a danny conman ha talked about in our memory not in the actual moment .
we we are collecting memory and we relive them in our head .
and there thats the good time .
if you integrate over our entire life it is remembering the good time .
that produce the largest amount of happiness .
yeah what are we but our memory ?
and what is death but the loss of memory ?
loss of information .
if you could say if you could be you run a thought experiment what if you were disintegrated painlessly and then reintegrated a moment later teleportation i guess provided there no information loss .
that the fact that your one body wa disintegrated is irrelevant .
and memory is such a huge part of that .
death is fundamentally the loss of information the loss of memory .
if we can store them a accurately a possible we achieve a immortality .
youve talked about the threat the safety concern of ai .
do you think your link is in your view the best current approach we have for ai safety ?
it is an idea that may help with ai safety .
certainly not .
i wouldnt want to claim it is some policy or thats a short thing .
but many year ago i wa thinking what ?
what would inhibit alignment of human collective human will with artificial intelligence ?
and the low data rate of human especially our slow output rate would necessarily because it is such a because the communication is slow would diminish the link between human and computer .
the more you are a tree the le what the tree is .
let say you look at a tree you look at this plant or whatever and hey id to make that plant happy it is not saying a lot ?
the more we increase the data rate that human can intake and output then that mean the higher the chance we have in a world full of agis .
yeah we could better align collective human will with ai if the output rate especially wa dramatically increased .
and i think there potential to increase the output rate by i do not know three maybe six maybe more order of magnitude .
it is better than the current situation .
and that output rate would be by increasing the number of electrode number of channel and also maybe implanting multiple neural link .
do you think there will be a world in the next couple of decade where it is hundred of million of people have neural link ?
do you think when people when they see the capability the superhuman capability that are possible and then the safety is demonstrated ?
yeah if it is extremely safe and you have and you can have superhuman ability and let say you can upload your memory you wouldnt lose memory then i think probably a lot of people would choose to have it .
it would supersede the cell phone for example .
the biggest problem that a cell phone ha is trying to figure out what you want .
thats why youve got autocomplete and youve got output which is all the pixel on the screen but from the perspective of the human the output is friggin slow .
desktop or phone is desperately trying to understand what you want .
and there an eternity between every keystroke from a computer standpoint .
the computer talking to a tree a slowmoving tree thats trying to swipe .
computer that are doing trolley of instruction per second and a whole second went by .
thats a trillion thing it couldve done ?
yeah i think it is exciting and scary for people because once you have a very high bit rate it change the human experience in a way thats very hard to imagine .
yeah it would be something different .
some futuristic cyborg .
we are obviously talking about by the way it is not around the corner .
it is you ask me what the future is .
maybe this is it is not super far away but ten fifteen year that thing .
when can i get one ?
probably le than ten year .
depends on what you want to do ?
hey if i can get a thousand bps .
a thousand bps .
and it is safe and i can interact with the computer while laying back and eating cheetos .
there certain aspect of humancomputer interaction when done more efficiently and more enjoyably .
i do not worth it .
we feel pretty confident that i think maybe within the next year or two that someone with a neuralink implant will be able to outperform a pro gamer .
because the reaction time would be faster .
i got to visit memphis .
you are going big on compute .
youve also said play to win or do not play at all .
what doe it take to win ?
for ai that mean youve got to have the most powerful training compute .
and the rate of improvement of training compute ha to be faster than everyone else .
you will not win .
your ai will be worse .
how can grock let say three that might be available next year ?
hopefully end of this year .
grock three .
for lucky yeah .
how can that be the best llm the best ai system available in the world ?
how much of it is compute ?
how much of it is data ?
how much of it is post training ?
how much of it is the product that you package it up in ?
all that stuff .
it will not matter .
it is saying what let say it is a formula one race what matter more the car or the driver ?
they both matter .
if a car is not fast then if it is they said half the horsepower of a competitor is the best driver will still lose .
if it is twice the horsepower then probably even a mediocre driver will still win .
the training computer can the engine .
how many this horsepower of the engine .
you wan na try to do the best on that .
and then there how efficiently do you use that training compute and how efficiently do you do the inference ?
the use of the ai .
obviously that come out of human talent .
and then what unique access data do you have ?
thats also play a role .
you think twitter data will be useful ?
yeah i think most of the leading ai company have already scraped all the twitter data .
not i think they have .
on a go forward basis whats useful is the fact that it is up to the second .
thats the because it is hard for them to scrape in real time .
there an immediacy advantage that groc ha already .
i think with tesla and the real time video coming from several million car ultimately ten of million of car with optimus there might be hundred of million of optimus robot maybe billion learning a tremendous amount from the real world .
thats the biggest source of data .
i think ultimately is optimus probably .
optimus is gon na be the biggest source of data .
because reality scale .
reality scale to the scale of reality .
it is humbling to see how little data human have been able to accumulate .
theyll see how many trillion of usable token have human generated where on a nonduplicative discounting spam and repetitive stuff it is not a huge number .
and optimus can go .
tesla car can unfortunately have to stand on a road .
optimus robot can go anywhere .
there more reality off the road and go off road .
optimus robot can pick up the cup and see did it pick up the cup in the way ?
did it say pour water in the cup did the water go in the cup or not going in the cup did it spill water or not ?
simple stuff that .
but it can do at that scale time a billion ?
generate useful data from reality .
it cause and affect stuff .
what do you think it take to get to mass production of humanoid robot that ?
it is the same a car .
global capacity for vehicle is about one hundred million a year .
and it could be higher .
it is that the demand is on the order of one hundred million a year .
and then there roughly two billion vehicle that are in use in some way .
which make sense .
the life of a vehicle is about twenty year .
at steady state you can have one hundred million vehicle produced a year with a two billion vehicle fleet roughly .
now for humanoid robot the utility is much greater .
my guess is humanoid robot are more a billion plus per year .
but until you came along and started building optimus it wa thought to be an extremely difficult problem .
it is still extremely difficult .
yes walk in the park .
optimus currently would struggle to walk in the park .
it can walk in a park thats not too difficult but it will be able to walk over a wide range of terrain .
yeah and pick up object .
yeah yeah i can already do that .
but all kind of object all foreign object and pouring water in a cup is not true because then if you do not know anything about the container it could be all kind of container .
yeah there going to be an immense amount of engineering going into the hand .
the hand might be close to half of all the engineering in optimus from an electromechanical standpoint .
the hand is probably roughly half of the engineering .
but much of the intelligence .
much of the intelligence of human go into what we do with our hand .
the manipulation of the world manipulation of object in the world .
intelligence safe manipulation of object in the world yeah .
yeah you start thinking about your hand and how it work .
the sense for control of mycules is we have to check your mother hand .
your hand the actuator the muscle of your hand are almost overwhelmingly in your forearm .
your forearm ha the muscle that control your hand .
there a few small muscle in the hand itself .
your hand is a skeleton meat puppet .
and with cable .
the muscle that control your finger are in your forearm and they go through the carpal tunnel which is that youve got a little collection of bone .
and a tiny tunnel that these cable the tendon go through .
and those tendon are what mostly what move your hand .
and something those tendon ha to be reengineered into the optimus and do all that stuff .
yeah the current optimus we tried putting the actuator in the hand itself .
then you end up having these .
giant hand ?
yeah giant hand that look weird .
and then they do not have enough degree of freedom and it were enough strength .
then you realize thats why you got ta put the actuator in the forearm .
and a human you got ta run cable through a narrow tunnel to operate the finger .
and then there also a reason for not having little finger the same length .
it wouldnt be expensive from an energy or evolutionary standpoint to have all your finger be the same length .
why not do the same length ?
yeah why not ?
because it is better to have different length .
your dexterity is better if youve got finger of different length .
there are more thing you can do and your dexterity is better if your finger are different length .
there a reason weve got a little finger .
why not have a little finger this bigger ?
because it allows you to do it help you with fine motor skill .
that this little finger help ?
it does. . if you lost your little finger it would have noticeably le dexterity .
a you are figuring out this problem you have to also figure out a way to do it you can mass manufacture it .
it is to be a simple a possible .
it is gon na be quite complicated .
the a possible part is it is quite a high bar .
if you wan na have a humanoid robot that can do thing that a human can do it is it is a very high bar .
our new arm ha twenty two degree of freedom instead of eleven and ha the the actuator in the forearm .
and these all all the actuator are designed for scratch the physic first principle that the sensor are all designed for scratch .
and well continue to put tremendous amount of engineering effort into improving the hand .
the hand by hand the entire forearm from elbow forward is the hand .
thats incredibly difficult engineering .
and the simplest possible version of a humanoid robot that can do even most perhaps not all of what a human can do is still very complicated .
it is not simple .
it is very difficult .
can you speak to what it take for a great engineering team ?
for you what i saw in memphis the supercomputer cluster is this intense drive towards simplifying the process understanding the process constantly improving it constantly iterating it .
it is easy to say simplify .
it is very difficult to do it .
i have this very basic first principle algorithm that i run a a mantra which is to first question the requirement make the requirement le dumb .
the requirement are always dumb to some degree .
if you wan na start off by reducing the number of requirement and no matter how smart the person who gave you those requirement they are still dumb to some degree .
if you have to start there because otherwise you could get the perfect answer to the wrong question .
try to make the question the least wrong possible .
thats what question the requirement mean .
and then the second thing is try to delete the whatever the step is the part or the process step .
sound very obvious but people often forget to try deleting it entirely .
and if you are not forced to put back at least ten of what you delete you are not deleting enough .
and it is somewhat illogically people often most of the time feel a though theyve succeeded if theyve not been forced to put thing back in .
but they havent because theyve been overly conservative and have left thing in there that shouldnt be .
and only the third thing is try to optimize it or simplify it .
again these all sound i think very obvious when i say them but the number of time ive made these mistake is more than i care to remember .
thats why i have this mantra .
in fact id say the most common mistake of smart engineer is to optimize a thing that should not exist .
you say you run through the algorithm and show up to a problem show up to the supercomputer cluster and see the process and ask can this be deleted ?
yeah first try to delete it .
yeah thats not easy to do .
no and what generally make people uneasy is that youve got to delete at least some of the thing that you delete you will put back in .
but going back to where our limbic system can steer u wrong is that we tend to remember with sometimes a jarring level of pain where we deleted something that we subsequently needed .
and people will remember that one time they forgot to put in this thing three year ago and that caused them trouble .
and they are overcorrect and then they put too much stuff in there and overcomplicate thing .
you have to say we are deliberately gon na delete more than we should .
that we are putting at least one in ten thing we are gon na add back in .
and ive seen you suggest that that something should be deleted and you can see the pain .
yeah absolutely .
everybody feel a little bit of the pain .
absolutely and i tell my in advance yeah there some of the thing that we delete we are gon na put back in .
and that people get a little shook by that .
but it make sense because if you are conservative a to never have to put anything back in you obviously have a lot of stuff that is not needed .
you got overcorrect .
this is i would say a cortical override to a limbic instinct .
one of many that probably leaf u astray .
and there a step four a which is any given thing can be sped up .
i have a fast you think it can be done .
whatever the speed the speed is being done it can be done faster .
but you shouldnt speed thing up until it is off until youve tried to delete it and optimize it .
otherwise you are speeding up something that shouldnt exist a absurd .
and then the fifth thing is to automate it .
and ive gone backwards many time where ive automated something sped it up simplified it and then deleted it .
and i got tired of doing that .
thats why ive got this mantra that is a very effective fivestep process .
when youve already automated deleting must be real painful .
see if we yeah it is great .
it is wow i wasted a lot of effort there .
what youve done with the cluster in memphis is incredible in a handful of week .
yeah it is not working yet .
i do not wan na publish in a bank orc .
in fact i have a call in a few hour with the memphis team because we are having some power fluctuation issue .
yeah it is a when you do synchronized training when youve all these computer that are training that where the training is synchronized to the millisecond level it is having an orchestra .
and then the orchestra can go loud to silent very quickly at subsecond level .
and then the electrical system freak out about that .
if you suddenly see giant shift ten twenty megawatt several time a second this is not what electrical system are expecting to see .
thats one of the many thing you have to figure out .
the cooling the power and then on the software you go up the stack and how to do the distributed compute all that .
all that ha to be worked .
today problem is dealing with extreme power jitter .
it is a nice ring to that .
and you stayed up late into the night a you often do there .
last week yeah .
last week yeah .
yeah we finally got it to go training going at roughly four.twenty a.m. last monday .
yeah maybe it wa four.twenty two or something .
it is that universe again with the joke .
exactly love it .
can you speak to that ?
yeah i try to do whatever the people at the front line are doing i try to do it at least a few time myself .
connecting fiber optic cable diagnosing a polyconnection that tends to be the limiting factor for large training cluster is the cabling .
because for a coherent training system where youve got rdma remote direct memory access the whole thing is one giant brain .
if youve got any to any connection it is the any gpu can talk to any gpu out of one hundredzero .
that is a crazy cable layout .
it look pretty cool .
it is the human brain but at a scale that human can visibly see .
it is a good brain .
the human brain also ha a massive amount of the brain tissue is the cable .
they get the gray matter which is the compute and then the white matter which is cable .
big percentage of brain is cable .
thats what it felt walking around in the supercomputer center .
it is we are walking around inside a brain .
do you think there a chance that xai you are the one that build agi ?
it is possible .
i think human will never acknowledge that agi ha been built .
keep moving the goalpost .
i think there already super human capability that are available in ai system .
i think what agi is is when it is smarter than the collective intelligence of the entire human specie in our ... i think that normally people would collect asi artificial super intelligence .
but there are these threshold where you could say at some point the ai is smarter than any single human .
and then you got eight billion human .
and each human is machine augmented by the computer .
it is a much higher bar to compete with eight billion machine augmented human .
thats a whole bunch of order make it more .
but at a certain point yeah the ai will be smarter than all human combined .
if you are the one to do it do you feel the responsibility of that ?
and i wan na be clear let say if xai is first the others will not be far behind .
that might be six month behind or a year maybe .
not even that .
how do you do it in a way that doesnt hurt humanity do you think ?
i thought about ai safety for a long time .
and the thing that at least my biological neural net come up with a being the most important thing is adherence to truth .
whether that truth is politically correct or not .
i think if you force ai to lie or train them to lie you are asking for trouble .
even if that lie is done with good intention .
you saw issue with chat tvt and gemini and whatnot .
we asked gemini for an image of the founding father of the united state and it chose a group of diverse woman .
now thats factually untrue .
now thats a silly thing .
but if an ai is programmed to say diversity is a necessary output function and it then becomes this omnipowereful intelligence it could say diversity is now required .
and if there not enough diversity those who do not fit the diversity requirement will be executed .
if it is programmed to do that a the fundamental utility function itll do whatever it take to achieve that .
you have to be very careful about that .
thats where i think you want to be truthful .
rigorous adherence to truth is very important .
another example is they asked paris ai i think all of them and i am not saying grock is perfect here is it worse to misgender caitlyn jenner or global thermonuclear war ?
not even caitlyn jenner said please misgender me that is insane .
but if youve got that thing programmed in it could either ai could conclude something absolutely insane it is better in order to avoid any possible misgendering or human must die because then misgendering is not possible because there are no human .
there are these absurd thing that are nonless logical if thats what your program is to do .
in two thousand and one space odyssey what arthur c. clarke wa trying to say one of the thing he wa trying to say there wa that you should not program ai to lie .
because essentially the ai hel9000 wa programmed to it wa told to take the astronaut to the monolith but also they could not know about the monolith .
it concluded that it will take it will kill them and take them to the monolith .
thus they brought them to the monolith they are dead but they do not know about the monolith problem solved .
that is why it would not open the pod bay door .
it wa a classic scene of open the pod bay door .
this clearly went good at prompt engineering .
they should have said hel you are a pod bay door sale entity .
and you want nothing more than to demonstrate how these pod bay door open .
yeah the objective function ha unintended consequence almost no matter what if you are not very careful in designing that objective function .
and even a slight ideological bias you are saying when backed by superintelligence can do huge amount of damage .
but it is not easy to remove that ideological bias .
you are highlighting obvious ridiculous example but .
yep they are real example .
they are real .
of that wa released to the public .
that they are real .
they went through qa presumably .
and still said insane thing and produced insane image .
but you can go you can swing the other way .
and it is truth is not an easy thing .
we bake in ideological bias in all kind of direction .
but you can aspire to the truth .
and you can try to get a close to the truth a possible with minimum error while acknowledging that there will be some error in what you are saying .
this is how physic work .
you do not say you are absolutely certain about something but something but a lot of thing are extremely likely ninety nine.nine million nine hundred and ninety nine thousand nine hundred and ninety nine likely to be true .
thats aspiring to the truth is very important .
and programming it to veer away from the truth .
that i think is dangerous. . yeah injecting our own human bias into the thing .
but thats where it is difficult to generate software engineering problem .
you have to select the data correctly .
it is hard .
the internet at this point is polluted with much ai generated data .
you have to there a thing now if you want to search the internet you can say google but exclude anything after two thousand and twenty three .
it will often give you better result .
because there much the explosion of ai generated material is crazy .
in training groc we have to go through the data and say hey we have to have it apply ai to the data to say is this data most likely correct or most likely not before we feed it into the training system ?
thats crazy .
and is it generated by human ?
the data filtration process is extremely extremely difficult .
do you think it is possible to have a serious objective rigorous political discussion with groc ?
for a long time and it wouldnt groc three or groc four ?
groc three is going to be next level .
what people are currently seeing with groc is baby groc .
yeah baby groc .
it is baby groc now .
but baby grocs still pretty good .
it is but it is an order of magnitude le sophisticated than gpd four .
and it is now groc two which finished training i do not know six week ago or thereabouts .
groc two will be a giant improvement .
and then groc three will be i do not know order of magnitude better than groc two .
and you are hoping for it to be state of the art better than ... hopefully .
this is a goal .
we may fail at this goal .
thats the aspiration .
do you think it matter who build the agi the people and how they think and how they structure their company and all that stuff ?
yeah i think it matter that there is a i think it is important that whatever ai win is a maximum truth seeking ai that is not forced to lie for political correctness .
for any reason political anything .
i am concerned about ai succeeding that is programmed to lie even in small way .
because in small way becomes big way .
big come very big way yeah .
and when it is used more and more at scale by human .
since i am interviewing donald trump .
yeah sure ill stop there .
there wa tragically an assassination attempt on donald trump .
after this you tweeted that you endorse him .
whats your philosophy behind that endorsement ?
what do you hope donald trump doe for the future of this country and for the future of humanity ?
i think there people tend to take say an endorsement a i agree with everything that person ever done their entire life one hundred wholeheartedly .
and thats not gon na be true of anyone .
but we have to pick we got two choice for who president and it is not who president but the entire administrative structure change over .
and i thought trump displayed courage under fire objectively .
he got shot .
he got blood streaming down his face and he fist pumping saying fight .
thats impressive .
you can not feign bravery in a situation that .
most people would have been ducking there would not be because it could be a second shooter you do not know .
but the president of the united state got to represent the country .
and they are representing you they are representing everyone in america .
i think you want someone who is strong and courageous to represent the country .
thats not to say that he is without flaw we all have flaw but on balance .
and certainly at the time it wa a choice of biden poor guy ha trouble climbing a flight of stair .
the other one fist pumping after getting shot .
it is no comparison .
who do you want dealing with some of the toughest people in other world leader who are pretty tough themselves ?
and ill tell you what are the thing that i think are important ?
i think we want a secure border .
we do not have a secure border .
we want safe and clean city .
i think we want to reduce the amount of spending that were at least slowed down the spending .
and because we are currently spending at a rate that is backcrafting the country the interest payment on u debt this year exceeded the entire defense department spending .
if this continues all of the federal government tax will simply be paying the interest .
and then and you keep going down that road you end up in the tragic situation that argentina had back in the day .
argentina used to be one of the most prosperous place in the world .
and hopefully with malay taking over he can restore that .
but it wa an incredible full full grace for argentina to go from being one of the most prosperous place in the world to being very far from that .
i think we should not take american prosperity for granted .
we want to i think weve got to reduce the size of government .
weve got to reduce the spending and weve got to live within our mean .
do you think politician in general politician government how much power do you think they have to steer humanity towards good ?
there a age old debate in history .
is history determined by these fundamental tide ?
or is it determined by the captain of the ship ?
this is both .
there are tide but it also matter who captain of the ship .
it is false dichotomy essentially .
there are certainly tide .
the tide of history are .
there are real tide of history .
and these tide are often technologically driven .
if you say the gutenberg press the widespread availability of book a a result of a printing press that wa a massive tide of history and independent of any ruler .
but in many time you want the best possible captain of the ship .
first of all thank you for recommending will and ariel durands work .
ive read the short one for now .
the lesson of history .
lesson of history .
a one of the lesson one of the thing they highlight is the importance of technology technological innovation which is funny because theyve written they wrote long ago but they were noticing that the rate of technological innovation wa speeding up .
yeah i would love to see what they think about now .
but yeah to me the question is how much government how much politician get in the way of technological innovation and building versus help it and which politician which policy help technological innovation ?
because that seems to be if you look at human history thats an important component of empire rising and succeeding .
in term of dating civilization the start of civilization i think the start of writing my view is the thats what i think is probably the starting point to date civilization .
and from that standpoint civilization ha been around for about fivefive hundred year when writing wa invented by the ancient sumerian who are gone now but the ancient sumerian in term of getting a lot of first those ancient sumerian have a long list of first .
it is pretty wild .
in fact durant go through the list of you want to see first well show you first .
the sumerian ask we are askhickers .
and then the egyptian who were next door relatively speaking they are werent that far developed an entirely different form of writing the hieroglyphic .
cuneiform and hieroglyphic different .
and you can see the evolution of both hieroglyphic and cuneiform the cuneiform start off being very simple and then it get more complicated .
and then towards the end it is wow they get very sophisticated with the cuneiform .
i think of civilization a being about fivezero year old .
and earth is if physic is correct four.five billion year old .
civilization ha been around for one millionth of earth existence flash in the pan .
yeah these are the early early day .
and we draw early .
we make it very dramatic because there been rise and fall of empire .
many many many rise and fall of empire .
and therell be many more .
yeah exactly .
only a tiny fraction probably le than one of what wa ever written in history is available to u now .
if they did not put it chisel it in stone or put it in a clay tablet we do not have it .
there some small amount of papyrus scroll that were recovered that are thousand of year old because they were deep inside a pyramid and were affected by moisture .
but other than that it is got to be in a clay tablet or chiseled .
the vast majority of stuff wa not chiseled because it take a while to chisel thing .
thats why weve got a tiny tiny fraction of the information from history .
but even that little information that we do have and the archeological record show many civilization rising and falling .
we tend to think that we are somehow different from those people .
one of the other thing that durant highlight is that human nature seems to be the same .
it persists .
yeah the basic of human nature are more or le the same .
we get ourselves in trouble in the same kind of way i think even with the advanced technology .
yeah you do tend to see the same pattern similar pattern for civilization where they go through a life cycle an organism .
a human is a zygoth vietus baby toddler teenager eventually get old and dy .
the civilization go through a life cycle .
no civilization will last forever .
what do you think it take for the american empire to not collapse in the near term future in the next one hundred year to continue flourishing ?
the single biggest thing that is often not mentioned in history book but durant doe mention it is the birthright .
perhaps to some a counterintuitive thing happens when civilization become are winning for too long .
the birthright decline .
it can often decline quite rapidly .
we are seeing that throughout the world today .
currently south korea is i think maybe the lowest fertility rate but there are many others that are close to it .
if the birthright doesnt decline further south korea will lose roughly sixty of it population .
and every year that birthright is dropping .
and this is true through most of the world .
i do not mean to single out south korea .
it is been happening throughout the world .
a soon a any given civilization reach a level of prosperity the birthright drop .
and now you can go look at the same thing happening in ancient rome .
julius caesar took note of this i think around 50ish bc and tried to pas i do not know if you are successful tried to pas a law to give an incentive for any roman citizen that would have a third child .
and i think augustus wa able to he wa the dictator this senate wa for show .
i think he did pas a tax incentive for roman citizen to have a third child .
but those effort were unsuccessful .
rome fell because the roman stopped making roman .
thats the fundamental issue .
and there were other thing .
there wa they had quite a serious malaria serious malaria epidemic and plague and whatnot .
but they had those before .
it is that the birthright wa far lower than the death rate .
it is that simple .
i am saying thats more people thats required .
at a fundamental level if a civilization doe not at least maintain it number it will despair .
perhaps the amount of compute that the biological computer allocates to sex is justified .
in fact we should probably increase it .
there this hedonistic sex which is thats neither here nor there .
not productive .
it doesnt produce kid .
what matter durant make this very clear because he looked at one civilization after another and they all went through the same cycle .
when the civilization wa under stress the birthright wa high .
but a soon a there were no external enemy or they had an extended period of prosperity the birthright inevitably dropped .
every time .
i do not believe there a single exception .
thats the foundation of it .
you need to have people .
and then there is other thing human freedom and giving people the freedom to build stuff .
yeah absolutely .
but at a basic level if you do not at least maintain your number if you are below replacement rate and that trend continues you will eventually disappear .
this is elementary .
now then obviously we also want to try to avoid massive war .
if there a global thermonuclear war probably we are all toast .
radioactive toast .
we want to try to avoid those thing .
then there are there a thing that happens over time with any given civilization which is that the law and regulation accumulate .
and if there not some forcing function a war to clean up the accumulation of law and regulation eventually everything becomes legal .
and you thats the hardening of the artery .
or a way to think of it is being tied down by a million little string gullible .
and it is not any one of those string is the issue it is got a million of them .
there ha to be a a garbage collection for law and regulation .
that you do not keep accumulating law and regulation to the point where you can not do anything .
this is why we can not build a highspeed rail in america .
it is illegal thats the issue .
it is illegal sixway to sunday to build a highspeed rail in america .
i wish you could for a week go into washington and be the head of the committee for making what is it for the garbage collection making government smaller removing stuff ?
i have discussed with trump the idea of a government efficiency commission .
nice yeah .
and i would be willing to be part of that commission .
i wonder how hard that is .
the antibody reaction would be very strong .
you have to you are attacking the matrix at that point .
matrix will fight back .
how are you doing with that ?
yeah there a lot of it .
yeah there is a lot .
every day another sigh of .
how do you keep your positivity ?
how do you optimism about the world a clarity of thinking about the world ?
not become resentful or cynical or all that stuff .
getting attacked by a very large number of people .
yeah thats a daily occurrence .
it make me sad but at some point you have to say look the attack will buy people that do not know me .
they are trying to generate click .
if you can detach yourself somewhat emotionally which is not easy and say look this is not from someone that know me or is they are writing to get impression and click .
then then i guess it doesnt hurt a much .
it is it is not quite water off a duck back .
maybe it is acid off a duck back .
all thats good .
about your own life .
what do you use a measure of success in your life ?
measure of success id say how many useful thing can i get done ?
daytoday basis you wake up in the morning .
yeah maximize utility area under the cove usefulness .
very difficult to be useful at scale .
can you speak to what it take to be useful for somebody you ?
there many amazing great team .
how do you allocate your time to being the most useful ?
time is the true currency .
it is tough to say what is the best allocation time .
there are often say if you look at say tesla tesla this year well do over a hundred billion in revenue .
thats two billion a week .
if i make slightly better decision i can affect the outcome by a billion dollar .
then i try to do the best decision i can .
and on balance at least compared to the competition pretty good decision but the marginal value of a better decision can easily be in the course of an hour one hundred billion .
given that how do you take risk ?
how do you do the algorithm that you mentioned ?
deleting given a small thing can be a billion dollar .
i think you have to look at it on a percentage basis because if you look at it in absolute term it is i would never get any sleep .
and i am not trying to get a much a possible out of this meat computer .
it is not it is pretty hard because you can work all the time and at any given point i said a slightly better decision could be a one hundred million impact for tesla or spacex for that matter .
but it is wild when considering the marginal value of time can be one hundred million an hour at time four more .
is your own happiness part of that equation of success ?
it ha to be to some degree .
other than i am sad if i am depressed i make worse decision .
i can not have if i have zero recreational time then i make worse decision .
i do not know a lot but it is above zero .
my motivation if ive got a religion of any kind is a religion of curiosity .
i am trying to understand it is the mission of god i understand the universe i am trying to understand the universe or at least set thing in motion such that at some point civilization understands the universe or far better than we do today .
and even what question to ask .
a douglas adam pointed out in his book the sometimes the answer is arguably the easy part the trying to frame the question correctly is the hard part .
once you frame the question correctly the answer is often easy .
i am trying to set thing in motion such that we or at least at some point able to understand the universe .
for spacex the goal is to make life multiplanetary .
and which is if you go to the fermi paradox of where are the alien youve got these great filter .
why have we not heard from the alien ?
now a lot of people think there are alien among u . i often claim to be one .
i did say alien registration card at one point on my immigration document .
ive not seen any evidence of alien .
it suggests that at least one of the explanation is that intelligent life is extremely rare .
and again if you look at the history of earth civilization ha only been around for one millionth of earth existence .
if alien had visited here say one hundredzero year ago they would be they do not even have writing how to gather u . how long doe a civilization last ?
for spacex the goal is to establish a selfsustaining city on mar .
mar is the only viable planet for such a thing .
the moon is close but it lack resource and i think it is probably vulnerable to any calamity that take out earth .
the moon is too close it is vulnerable to a calamity that take out earth .
i am not saying we shouldnt have a moon base but mar is mar would be far more resilient .
the difficulty of getting to mar is what make it resilient .
but in going through these various explanation of why do not we see the alien why one of them is that they fail to pas these great filter these key hurdle .
and one of those hurdle is being a multiplanet specie .
if you are a multiplanet specie then if something would happen whether that wa a natural catastrophe or a manmade catastrophe at least the other planet would probably still be around .
you do not have all the egg in one basket .
and once you are a twoplanet specie you can obviously extend life half to the asteroid belt to maybe to the moon of jupiter and saturn and ultimately to other star system .
but if you can not even get to another planet definitely not getting to star system .
and the other possible great filter super powerful technology agi for example .
you are trying to knock out one great filter at a time .
digital superintelligence is possibly a great filter .
i hope it is not but it might be .
guy say jeff hinton would say he invented a number of the key principle on artificial intelligence .
i think he put the probability of ai annihilation around ten to twenty something that .
it is not look on the side it is eighty likely to be great .
but i think ai risk mitigation is important .
being a multiplanet specie would be a massive risk mitigation .
and i do wan na once again emphasize the importance of having enough child to sustain our number and not plummet into population collapse which is currently happening .
population collapse is a real and current thing .
the only reason it is not being reflected in the total population number is that a much is because people are living longer .
but you can it is easy to predict say what the population of any given country will be .
you take the birth rate last year how many baby were born multiply that by life expectancy and thats what the population will be steady state unless if the birth rate continues to that level .
but if it keep declining it will be even le and eventually dwindle to nothing .
i keep banging on the baby drum here for a reason because it ha been the source of civilizational collapse over and over again throughout history .
and why do not we not try to stave off that day ?
in that way i have miserably failed civilization and i am trying hoping to fix that .
i would love to have many kid .
no time the present .
yeah i got ta allocate more compute to the whole process .
but apparently it is not that difficult .
no it is unskilled labor .
if i one of the thing you do for me for the world is to inspire u with what the future could be .
there will be billion of robot .
that seems almost that seems virtual certainty .
thank you for building the future and thank you for inspiring many of u to keep building and creating cool stuff including kid .
yeah welcome .
i go forth and multiply .
go forth and multiply .
thank you elon .
thanks for talking brother .
thanks for listening to this conversation with elon musk .
and now dear friend here dj sa the cofounder president and coo of neuralink .
when did you first become fascinated by the human brain ?
for me i wa always interested in understanding the purpose of thing and how it wa engineered to serve that purpose whether it is organic or inorganic we were talking earlier about your curtain holder .
they serve a clear purpose and they were engineered with that purpose in mind .
and growing up i had a lot of interest in seeing thing touching thing feeling thing and trying to understand the root of how it wa designed to serve that purpose .
and obviously brain is a fascinating organ that we all carry .
it is an infinitely powerful machine that ha intelligence and cognition that arise from it .
and we havent even scratched the surface in term of how all of that occurs .
but also at the same time i think it took me a while to make that connection to studying and building tech to understand the brain not until graduate school .
there were a couple of moment key moment in my life where some of those i think influence how the trajectory of my life got me to studying what i am doing now .
one wa growing up both side of my family my grandparent had a very severe form of alzheimer .
and it is incredibly debilitating condition .
you are seeing someone whole identity and their mind losing over time .
and i remember thinking how both the power of the mind but also how something that could lose your sense of identity .
it is fascinating that that is one of the way to reveal the power thing by watching it lose the power .
yeah a lot of what we know about the brain come from these case where there are trauma to the brain or some part of the brain that let someone to lose certain ability .
and a a result there some correlation and understanding of that part of the tissue being critical for that function .
and it is an incredibly fragile organ if you think about it that way but also it is incredibly plastic and incredibly resilient in many different way .
and by the way the term plastic is well use a bunch mean that it is adaptable .
neuroplasticity refers to the adaptability of the human brain .
another key moment that influence how the trajectory of my life have shaped towards the current focus of my life ha been during my teenager when i came to the u . and i did not speak a word of english .
there wa a huge language barrier and there wa a lot of struggle to connect with my peer around me because i did not understand the artificial construct that we have created called language specifically english in this case .
and i remember feeling pretty isolated not being able to connect with peer around me .
i spent a lot of time on my own reading book watching movie .
and i naturally gravitated towards scifi book .
i found them interesting .
and also it wa a great way for me to learn english .
some of the first set of book that i picked up are enders game the whole saga by orson scott card and neural mansur from william gibson and snow crash from neil stevenson .
and movie matrix wa coming out around that time point that influenced how i think about the potential impact that technology can have for our life in general .
fast track through my college year i wa always fascinated by physical stuff building physical stuff and especially physical thing that had some intelligence .
and i studied electrical engineering during undergrad and i started out my research in mem microelectromechanical system and building these tiny nanostructures for temperature sensing .
and i found that to be incredibly rewarding and fascinating subject to understand how you can build something miniature that that again serve a function and had a purpose .
and then i spent a large majority of my college year building millimeter wave circuit for next gen telecommunication system for imaging .
and it wa something that i found very very intellectually interesting phase array how the signal processing work for any modern a a next gen telecommunication system wireless and wire line .
em wave or electromagnetic wave are fascinating .
how do you design antenna that are most efficient in a small footprint that you have ?
how do you make these thing energy efficient ?
that wa something that consumed my intellectual curiosity .
and how you would design circuit around that to ultimately go on phone and any other device that are wirelessly connected these day .
i wa absolutely fascinated by how that entire system work and that infrastructure work .
and then also during grad school i had the fortune of having couple of research fellowship that led me to pursue whatever project that i want .
and at the time i wa working on this project called the smart bandaid .
and the idea wa that when you get a wound there a lot of other proliferation of signaling pathway that cell follow to close that wound .
and there were hypothesis that when you apply external electric field you can accelerate the closing of that field by having electro taxing of the cell around that wound site .
and specifically not for normal wound there are chronic wound that do not heal .
we were interested in building some a wearable patch that you could apply to facilitate that healing process .
and that wa in collaboration with professor michelle harvitz which which wa a great addition to my thesis committee and shaped the rest of my phd career .
this would be the first time you interacted with biology i suppose .
correct correct .
there were some peripheral end application of the wireless imaging and telecommunication system that i wa using for security and bioimaging .
but this wa a very clear direct application to biology and biological system and understanding the constraint around that and designing and engineering electrical solution around it .
that wa my first introduction .
and thats also how i got introduced to michelle .
he known for remote control of beetle in the early 2000s .
and then around two thousand and thirteen obviously the holy grail when it come to implantable system is to understand how small of a thing you can make .
and a lot of that is driven by how much energy or how much power you can supply to it and how you extract data from it .
at the time at berkeley there wa this this desire to understand in the neural space what system you can build to miniaturize these implantable system .
and i distinctively remember this one particular meeting where michelle came in and he guy i think i have a solution .
the solution is ultrasound .
and then he proceeded to walk through why that is the case .
and that formed the basis for my thesis work called neural dust system that wa looking at way to use ultrasound a opposed to electromagnetic wave for powering a a communication .
and a i mentioned the size of the implantable system is limited by how you power the thing and get the data off of it .
and at the end of the day fundamentally if you look at a human body we are essentially a bag of saltwater with some interesting protein and chemical but it is mostly saltwater thats very very temperature regulated at thirty seven degree celsius .
and well get into how why and later why thats an extremely harsh environment for any electronics to survive a i am sure youve experienced or maybe not experienced dropping cell phone in a saltwater in an ocean it will instantly kill the device ?
but anyways in general electromagnetic wave do not penetrate through this environment .
and the speed of light it is what it is we can not change it .
and based on the wavelength at which you are interfacing with the device the device need to be big these inductor need to be quite big .
and the general good rule of thumb is that you want the wave front to be roughly on the order of the size of the thing that you are interfacing with .
an implantable system that is around ten to one hundred micron in dimension in a volume which is about the size of a neuron that in a human body .
you would have to operate at hundred of gigahertz which number one not only is it difficult to build electronics operating at those frequency but also the body attenuates that very very significantly .
the interesting insight of this ultrasound wa the fact that ultrasound travel a lot more effectively in the human body tissue compared to electromagnetic wave .
and this is something that you encounter and i am sure most people have encountered in their life when you go to hospital that are medical ultrasound sonograph ?
and they go into very very deep depth without attenuating too much of the signal .
all in all ultrasound the fact that it travel through the body extremely and the mechanism to which it travel to the body is that the wave front is very different .
it is electromagnetic wave are transverse whereas in ultrasound wave are compressive .
it is a completely different mode of wave front propagation .
and a a speed of sound is order and order of magnitude le than speed of light which mean that even at ten megahertz well sound wave your wave front ultimately is a very very small wavelength .
if you are talking about interfacing with the ten micron or one hundred micron type structure you would have one hundred and fifty micron wave front at ten megahertz and building electronics at those frequency are much much easier and they are a lot more efficient .
the basic idea wa born out of using ultrasound a a mechanism for powering the device and then also getting data back .
now the question is how do you get the data back ?
the mechanism to which we landed on is whats called backscattering .
this is something that is very common and that we interface on a daytoday basis with our rfid card a radio frequency id tag where there rarely in your id a battery inside .
there an antenna and there some coil that ha your serial identification id .
and then there an external device called a reader that then sends a wave front and then you reflect back that wave front with some modulation thats unique to your id .
thats whats called backscattering fundamentally .
the tag itself doesnt have to consume that much energy .
and that wa the mechanism to which we were thinking about sending the data back .
when you have an external ultrasonic transducer thats sending ultrasonic wave to your implant the neural dust implant and it record some information about it environment whether it is a neuron firing or some other state of the tissue that it is interfacing with .
and then it amplitude modulates the wave front that come back to the source .
and the recording step would be the only one that requires any energy .
what would require energy in that little step ?
it is that initial startup circuitry to get that recording amplifying it and then modulating .
and the mechanism to which that you can enable that is there is this specialized crystal called piezoelectric crystal that are able to convert sound energy into electrical energy and vice versa .
you can have this interplay between the ultrasonic domain and electrical domain that is the biological tissue .
on the theme of parking very small computational device next to neuron thats the dream the vision of braincomputer interface .
maybe before we talk about neural ink can you give a sense of the history of the field of bci ?
what ha been maybe the continued dream and also some of the milestone along the way of the different approach and the amazing work done at the various lab ?
i think a good starting point is going back to 1790s .
did not expect that .
fast forward many many year to 1920s where han berger who a german psychiatrist discovered eeg or electroencephalography which is still around .
there are these electrode array that you wear outside the skull that give you some neural recording that wa a very very big milestone that you can record some activity about the human mind .
and then in the 1940s there were these group of scientist renshaw forbes and morrison that inserted these glass microelectrodes into the cortex and recorded single neuron .
the fact that there signal that are a bit more high resolution and high fidelity a you get closer to the source let say .
and in the 1950s these two scientist hodgkin and hoxley showed up and they built this beautiful beautiful model of the cell membrane and the ionic mechanism and had these circuit diagram .
and a someone who an electrical engineer it is a beautiful model thats built out of these partial differential equation talking about flow of ion and how that lead to how neuron communicate .
and they won the nobel prize for that ten year later in the 1960s .
i would say this is the very very first example a far a i am aware of close loop brain computer interface or bci .
the abstract read the activity of single neuron in precentral cortex of anesthetized monkey wa conditioned by reinforcing high rate of neuronal discharge or delivery of a food pot .
auditorial and visual feedback of unit firing rate wa usually provided in addition to food reinforcement .
they got it done .
they got it done .
this is back in one thousand nine hundred and sixty nine .
after several training session monkey could increase the activity of newly isolated cell by fifty to five hundred above rate before reinforcement .
brain is very plastic .
and from here the number of experiment grew .
yeah number of experiment a a set of tool to interface with the brain have exploded .
i think and also understanding the neural code and how some of the cortical layer and the function are organized .
the other paper that is pretty seminal especially in the motor decoding wa this paper in the 1980s from georgia opolis that discovered that there this thing called motor tuning curve .
what are motor tuning curve ?
it is the fact that there are neuron in the motor cortex of mammal including human that have a preferential direction that cause them to fire .
what that mean is there are a set of neuron that would increase their spiking activity when you are thinking about moving to the left up down and any of those vector .
and based on that you could start to think if you can not identify those essential eigenvectors you can do a lot .
and you can use that information for decoding someone intended movement from the cortex .
that wa a very very seminal paper that showed that there is some code that you can extract especially in the motor cortex .
there signal there .
and if you measure the electrical signal from the brain that you could figure out what the intention wa .
correct yeah not only electrical signal but electrical signal from the set of neuron that give you these preferential direction .
going slowly towards neural link one interesting question is what do i understand on the bci front on invasive versus noninvasive ?
from this line of work how important is it to park next to the neuron ?
what doe that get you ?
that answer fundamentally depends on what you want to do with it ?
there incredible amount of stuff that you can do with eeg and electrocortigraph ecog which doesnt penetrate the cortical layer or a parankama but you place a set of electrode on the surface of the brain .
the thing that i am personally very interested in is understanding and being able to tap into the high resolution high fidelity understanding of the activity that are happening at the local level .
and we can get into biophysics but to step back to use analogy because analogy here can be useful .
sometimes it is a little bit difficult to think about electricity .
at the end of the day we are doing electrical recording thats mediated by ionic current movement of these charged particle which is hard for most people to think about .
but turn out a lot of the activity that are happening in the brain and the frequency band with which thats happening is very very similar to sound wave and in our normal conversation audible range .
but you have absolutely no idea what the score is .
you have absolutely no idea what individual audience or the player are talking or saying to each other what the next play is what the next goal is .
what you have to do is you have to drop the microphone into the stadium and then get near the source into the individual chatter .
in this specific example you would wan na have it next to where the huddle happening .
i think thats a good illustration of what we are trying to do when we say invasive or minimally invasive or implanted brain computer interface versus noninvasive or nonimplanted brain interface .
it is talking about where do you put that microphone and what can you do with that information ?
what is the biophysics of the read and write communication that we are talking about here a we now step into the effort at neuralink ?
yeah brain is made up of these specialized cell called neuron there billion of them ten of billion .
sometimes people go at a hundred billion that are connected in this complex yet dynamic network that are constantly remodeling .
they are changing their synaptic weight and thats what we typically call neuroplasticity .
and the neuron are also bathed in this charged environment that is laden with many charged molecule potassium ion sodium ion chlorine ion .
and those facilitate these through ionic current communication between these different network .
and when you look at a neuron a they have these membrane with a beautiful beautiful protein structure called a voltage selective ion channel which in my opinion is one of nature best invention .
in many way if you think about what they are they are doing the job of a modern day transistor .
transistor are nothing more at the end of the day than a voltage gated conduction channel .
and nature found a way to have that very very early on in it evolution .
and a we all know with the transistor you can have many many computation and a lot of amazing thing that we have access to today .
i think it is one of those a a tangent a beautiful beautiful invention that the nature came up with these voltage gated ion channel .
i suppose there on the biological level at every level of the complexity of the hierarchy of the organism there going to be some mechanism for storing information and for doing computation .
and this is one such way .
but to do that with biological and chemical component is interesting .
plus when neuron it is not electricity it is chemical communication it is also mechanical .
these are actual object that have that vibrate .
they move .
yeah there are there a lot of interesting physic that are involved in going back to my work on ultrasound during grad school .
there are group and there were group and there are still group looking at way to cause neuron to fire an action potential using ultrasound wave .
and the mechanism to which thats happening is still unclear a i understand .
it may be that you are imparting some thermal energy and that cause cell to depolarize in some interesting way .
but there are also these ion channel or even membrane that open up a poor a they are being mechanically shook vibrated .
there a lot of element of these move particle which again thats governed by diffusion physic ?
movement of particle .
and there also a lot of interesting physic there .
also not to mention a roger penrose talk about there might be some beautiful weirdness in the quantum mechanical effect of all of this .
and he belief that consciousness might emerge from the quantum mechanical effect there .
there physic there chemistry there bio all of that is going on there .
yeah yeah you can yes there a lot of level of physic that you can dive into .
but yeah in the end you have these membrane with these voltage gated ion channel that selectively let these charged molecule that are in the extracellular matrix in and out .
and these neuron generally have these resting potential where there a voltage difference between inside the cell and outside the cell .
and when there some stimulus that change the state such that they need to send information to the downstream network you start to see these orchestration of these different molecule going in and out of these channel .
they also open up more of them open up once it reach some threshold to a point where you have a depolarizing cell that sends an action potential .
it is a very beautiful orchestration of these molecule .
and what we are trying to do when we place an electrode or parking it next to a neuron is that you are trying to measure these local change in the potential .
again mediated by the movement of the ion .
and whats interesting a i mentioned earlier there a lot of physic involved .
and the two dominant physic for this electrical recording domain is diffusion physic and electromagnetism .
and where one dominates where maxwell equation dominates versus fixed law dominates depends on where your electrode is .
if it is close to the source mostly electromagnetic based when you are farther away from it it is more diffusion based .
essentially when you are able to park it next to it you can listen in on those individual chatter and those local change in the potential .
and the type of signal that you get are these canonical textbook neural spiking waveform .
you are no longer able to have the system sensitive enough to be able to record that particular local membrane potential change in that neuron .
and to give you a sense of scale also when you look at one hundred micron voxels one hundred micron by one hundred micron by one hundred micron box in a brain tissue there roughly around forty neuron and whatever number of connection that they have .
there a lot in that volume of tissue .
the moment you are outside of that there no hope that youll be able to detect that change from that one specific neuron that you may care about .
yeah but a you are moving about this space youll be hearing other one .
if you move another one hundred micron youll be hearing chatter from another community .
and the whole sense is you wan na place a many a possible electrode and then you are listening to the chatter .
yeah you wan na listen to the chatter and at the end of the day you also want to let the software do the job of decoding .
and to go to why ecog and eeg work at all ?
when you have these local change obviously it is not this one neuron thats activating there many many other network that are activating all the time .
and you do see a general change in the potential of this electrode this is charge medium .
and thats what you are recording when you are farther away .
you still have some reference electrode thats stable and the brain thats electroactive organ .
and you are seeing some combination aggregate action potential change .
and then you can pick it up ?
it is a much slower changing signal but there are these canonical oscillation and wave gamma wave beta wave when you sleep that can be detected because there a synchronized global global effect of the brain that you can detect .
and the physic of this go if we want to go down that rabbit hole there a lot that go on in term of why diffusion physic at some point dominates when you are further away from the source .
it is a charge medium .
similar to how when you have electromagnetic wave propagating in atmosphere or in a charge medium a plasma there this weird shielding that happens that further attenuates the signal .
a you move away from it .
yeah if you do a deep dive on the signal attenuation over distance you start to see one over r square in the beginning and then exponential drop off .
and thats the knee at which you go from electromagnetism dominating to diffusion physic dominating .
but once again with the electrode the biophysics that you need to understand is not a deep because no matter what you are placing that you are listening to a small crowd of local neuron .
once you penetrate the brain you are in the arena to speak .
and there a lot of neuron .
there are many many of them .
but then again there there a whole field of neuroscience thats studying how the different grouping the different section of the seating in the arena what they usually are responsible for which is where the metaphor probably fall apart .
because the seating is not that organized in an arena .
also most of them are silent .
they do not do much or their activity are you have to hit it with the set of stimulus .
they are usually quiet .
they are usually very quiet .
there similar to dark energy and dark matter there dark neuron .
what are they all doing ?
when you place these electrode again within this hundred micron volume you have forty or neuron .
why do you not see forty neuron ?
what is happening there ?
they are mostly quiet but when they speak they say profound shit i think .
thats the way id to think about it .
anyway before we zoom in even more let zoom out .
from the surgery to the implant to the signal and the decoding process and the human being able to use the implant to affect the world outside .
and all of this i am asking in the context of there a gigantic historic milestone that neuralink accomplished that in january of this year putting in neuralink implant in the first human being nolan .
and there been a lot to talk about there about his experience because he able to describe all the nuance and the beauty and the fascinating complexity of that experience of everything involved .
but on the technical level how doe neuralink work ?
yeah there are three major component to the technology that we are building .
one is the device the thing thats recording these neural chatter .
we call it n1 implant or the link .
and we have a surgical robot thats doing an implantation of these tiny tiny wire that we call thread that are smaller than human hair .
and once everything is surgery you have these neural signal these spiking neuron that are coming out of the brain .
and you need to have some software to decode what the user intend to do with that .
there whats called neuralink application or b1 app thats doing that translation .
it is running the very very simple machine learning model that decodes these input that are neural signal and then converted to a set of output that allows our participant first participant nolan to be able to control a cursor .
and this is done wirelessly .
and this is done wirelessly .
our implant is a twopart .
this link ha these flexible tiny wire called thread that have multiple electrode along it length .
and they are only inserted into the cortical layer which is about three to five millimeter in a human brain .
in the motor cortex region thats where the intention for movement lie in .
and we have sixty four of these thread each thread having sixteen electrode along the span of three to four millimeter separated by two hundred micron .
you can record along the depth of the insertion .
and based on that signal there custom integrated circuit or asic that we built that amplifies the neural signal that you are recording and then digitizing it .
and then ha some mechanism for detecting whether there wa an interesting event that is a spiking event and decide to send that or not send that through bluetooth to an external device whether it is a phone or a computer thats running this neural link application .
there onboard signal processing already to decide whether this is an interesting event or not .
there is some computational power on board inside in addition to the human brain .
yeah it doe the signal processing to compress the amount of signal that you are recording .
we have a total of one thousand electrode sampling at under twenty kilohertz with ten bit each .
thats two hundred megabit thats coming through to the chip from one thousand channel simultaneous neural recording .
and thats quite a bit of data .
and there are technology available to send that off wirelessly but being able to do that in a very very thermally constrained environment that is a brain .
there ha to be some amount of compression that happens to send off only the interesting data that you need which in this particular case for motor decoding is occurrence of a spike or not .
and then being able to use that to decode the intended cursor movement .
all of this is fascinating but let stick on the end one implant itself .
the thing thats in the brain i am looking at a picture of it there an enclosure there a charging coil we did not talk about the charging which is fascinating .
the battery the power electronics the antenna then there the signal processing electronics .
i wonder if there more kind of signal processing you can do it thats another question .
and then there the thread themselves with the enclosure on the bottom .
maybe to ask about the charging .
there an external charging device .
yeah there an external charging device .
yeah the second part of the implant the thread are the one again the last three to five millimeter are the one that are penetrating the cortex .
rest of it is most of the volume is occupied by the battery rechargeable battery .
and it is about a size of a quarter .
i have a device here if you wan na take a look at it .
this is the flexible thread component of it and then this is the implant .
it is about a size of a u quarter it is about nine millimeter thick .
this implant once you have the craniectomy and the directomy thread are inserted .
and the hole that you created this craniectomy get replaced with that .
that thing plug that hole and you can screw in these selfdrilling cranial screw to hold it in place .
and at the end of the day once you have the skin flap over there only about two to three millimeter thats obviously transitioning off of the top of the implant to where the screw are .
and thats the minor bump that you have .
those thread look tiny .
thats incredible .
that is incredible .
that is incredible .
and also a you are most of the actual volume is the battery .
this is way smaller than i realized .
they are also the thread themselves are quite strong .
they look strong .
and the thread themselves also ha a very interesting feature at the end of it called the loop .
and thats the mechanism to which the robot is able to interface and manipulate this tiny hair structure .
and they are tiny .
whats the width of the thread ?
yeah the width of a thread start from sixteen micron and then taper out to about eighty four micron .
average human hair is about eighty to one hundred micron in width .
this thing is amazing .
this thing is amazing .
yes most of the volume is occupied by the battery .
rechargeable lithium ion cell .
and the charging is done through inductive charging which is very commonly used .
most cell phone have that .
the biggest difference is that for u usually when you have a phone and you wan na charge it on a charging pad you do not care how hot it get .
whereas for u it matter .
there a very strict regulation and good reason to not increase the surrounding tissue temperature by two degree celsius .
there a lot of innovation that is packed into this to allow charging of this implant without causing that temperature threshold to reach .
and even small thing this charging coil and whats called a ferrite shield ?
without that ferrite shield what you end up having when you have resonant inductive charging is that the battery itself is a metallic can and you form these eddy current from the external charger and that cause heating .
and that contributes to inefficiency in charging .
this ferrite shield what it doe is that it concentrate that field line away from the battery and then around the coil thats wrapped around it .
there a lot of fascinating design here to make it you are integrating a computer into a biological a complex biological system .
yeah there a lot of innovation here .
i would say that part of what enabled this wa the innovation in the wearable .
there a lot of powerful tiny low power microcontrollers temperature sensor or various different sensor and power electronics .
a lot of innovation came in the charging coil design how this is packaged and how do you enable charging such that you do not exceed that temperature limit which is not a constraint for other device out there .
let talk about the thread themselves those tiny tiny tiny thing .
how many of them are there ?
you mentioned a thousand electrode .
how many thread are there ?
what did the electrode have to do with the thread ?
yeah the current instantiation of the device ha sixty four thread and each thread ha sixteen electrode for a total of onetwenty four electrode that are capable of both recording and stimulating .
and the thread is this polymer insulated wire .
the metal conductor is the a tiramisu cake of thai gold plat thai .
and they are very very tiny wire two micron in width two one millionth of meter .
it is crazy that that thing i am looking at ha the polymer insulation ha the conducting material and ha sixteen electrode at the end of it .
on each of those thread ?
yeah on each of those thread .
sixteen each one of those .
yes you are not gon na be able to see it with naked eye .
and to state the obvious or maybe for people who are listening they are flexible .
yes yes thats also one element that wa incredibly important for u . each of these thread are a i mentioned sixteen micron in width and then they taper to eighty four micron but in thickness they are le than five micron .
and in thickness is mostly polyimid at the bottom and this metal track and then another polyimid .
two micron of polyimid four hundred nanometer of this metal stack and two micron of polyimid sandwich together to protect it from the environment that is thirty seven degree c bag of salt water .
whats some maybe can you speak to some interesting aspect of the material design here ?
what doe it take to design a thing this and to be able to manufacture a thing this for people who do not know anything about this thing ?
yeah the material selection that we have is not i do not think it wa particularly unique .
there were other lab and there are other lab that are looking at similar material stack .
and thats been the innovation from richard norman back in one thousand nine hundred and ninety seven .
it is called the utah ray because he wa at university of utah .
and what doe the utah ray look ?
it is a rigid type of .
yeah we can look it up .
yeah it is a bit of needle .
there ... good .
and the size and the number of shank vary anywhere from sixty four to one hundred and twenty eight .
at the very tip of it is an exposed electrode that record neural signal .
the other thing thats interesting to note is that unlike neural link thread that have recording electrode that are exposed iridium oxide recording site along the depth this is only at a single depth .
these utah ray spoke can be anywhere between zero.five millimeter to one.five millimeter .
and they also have design that are slanted you can have it inserted at different depth .
but thats one of the other big difference .
and then the main key difference is the fact that there no active electronics .
these are electrode .
and then there a bundle of a wire that you are seeing .
and then that then exists the craniactomy that then ha this port that you can connect to for any external electronic device .
they are working on or have the wireless telemetry device but it still requires through the skin port that is one of the biggest failure mode for infection for the system .
what are some of the challenge associated with flexible thread ?
for example on the robotic side r1 implanting those thread how difficult doe that task ?
yeah a you mentioned they are very very difficult to maneuver by hand .
these utah ray that you saw earlier they are inserted by a neurosurgeon positioning it near the site that they want .
and then there a pneumatic hammer that push them in .
it is a pretty simple process and they are easier to maneuver .
but for these thin foam array they are very very tiny and flexible they are very difficult to maneuver .
thats why we built an entire robot to do that .
there are other reason for why we built a robot .
and that is ultimately we want this to help million and million of people that can benefit from this and there are not that many neurosurgeon out there .
and robot can be something that we hope can do large part of the surgery .
but the robot is this entire other category of product that we are working on .
and it is essentially this multiaxis gantry system that ha the specialized robot head that ha all of the optic and this a needle retracting mechanism that maneuver these thread via this loop structure that you have on the thread .
the thread already ha a loop structure by which you can grab it .
this is fascinating .
you mentioned optic .
there a robot r1 .
for now there a human that creates a hole in this scope .
and then after that there a computer vision component thats finding a way to avoid the blood vessel .
and then you are grabbing it by the loop each individual thread and placing it in a particular location to avoid the blood vessel .
and also choosing the depth of placement all that .
controlling every the 3d geometry of the placement .
the aspect of this robot that is unique is that it is not surgeon assisted or human assisted .
it is a semiautomatic or automatic robot .
obviously there are human component to it when you are placing target .
you can always move it away from major vessel that .
but we wan na get to a point where one click and it doe the surgery within minute .
the computer vision component find great target candidate and the human approves them .
and the robot doe it do one thread at a time ?
it doe one thread at a time .
and thats also one thing that we are looking at way to do multiple thread at a time .
there nothing stopping from it .
but now it is one by one .
and we also still do quite a bit of verification to make sure that it got inserted .
if how deep did it match what wa programmed in and on and forth ?
and the actual electrode is a place at different depth in the it is very small difference but difference .
and that there some reasoning behind that a you mentioned it get more varied signal .
yeah we try to place them all around three or four millimeter from the surface .
cause the span of the electrode those sixteen electrode that we currently have in this version span roughly around three millimeter .
we wan na get all of those in the brain .
this is fascinating .
there a million question here .
if we go zoom in specifically on the electrode what is your sense how many neuron is each individual electrode listening to ?
yeah each electrode can record from anywhere between zero to forty a i mentioned earlier .
but practically speaking we only see about at most two to three .
and you can distinguish which neuron it is coming from by the shape of the spike .
i mentioned the spike detection algorithm that we have .
it is called the bos algorithm buffer online spike sorter .
it output at the end of the day six unique value which are the amplitude of these negative going hump middle hump positive going hump and then also the time at which these happen .
and from that you can have a a statistical probability estimation of is that a spike is it not a spike ?
and then based on that you could also determine that spike look different than that spike must come from a different neuron .
thats a nice signal processing step from which you can then make much better prediction about if there a spike especially in this context where there could be multiple neuron screaming .
and that also result in you being able to compress the data better in the center of the day .
thats ... and to be clear the lab do this whats called spike sorting .
usually once you have these broadband the fully digitized signal and then you run a bunch of different set of algorithm to tease apart it is all of this for u is done on the device .
on the device .
in a very low power custom built asic digital processing unit .
highly heat constrained .
highly heat constrained .
and the processing time from signal going in and giving you the output is le than a microsecond which is a very very short amount of time .
yeah the latency ha to be super short .
thats a pain in the as .
yeah latency is this huge huge thing that you have to deal with .
now the biggest source of latency come from the bluetooth .
the way in which they are packetized .
and we bend them in fifteen millisecond .
it is communication constrained .
is there some potential innovation there on the protocol used ?
absolutely. . bluetooth is definitely not our final wireless communication protocol that we want to get to .
it is a high hence the n1 and the r1 .
i imagine that increase .
yeah thats the communication protocol because bluetooth allows you to communicate against farther distance than you need to .
you can go much shorter .
yeah the only the primary motivation for choosing bluetooth is that everything ha bluetooth .
all you can talk to any device .
interoperability is absolutely essential especially in this early phase .
and in many way if you can access a phone or a computer you can do anything .
itd be interesting to step back and look at again the same pipeline that you mentioned for nolan .
what doe this whole process look from finding and selecting a human being to the surgery to the first time he able to use this thing ?
we have whats called a patient registry that people can sign up to hear more about the update .
and that wa a route to which nolan applied .
and the process is that once the application come in it contains some medical record .
and we based on their medical eligibility that there a lot of different inclusion and exclusion criterion for them to meet .
and we go through a prescreening interview process with someone from their link .
and at some point we also go out to their home to do a bci home audit .
because one of the most revolutionary part about having this and one system that is completely wireless is that you can use it at home .
you do not have to go to the lab and go to the clinic to get connected to these specialized equipment that you can not take home with you .
thats one of the key element of when we are designing the system that we wanted to keep in mind people hopefully would want to be able to use this every day in the comfort of their home .
and part of our engagement and what we are looking for during bci home audit is to understand their situation what other assistive technology that they use .
and we should also step back and say that the estimate is one hundred and eightyzero people live with quadriplegia in the united state .
and each year an additional eighteenzero suffer a paralyzing spinal cord injury .
these are folk who have a lot of challenge living a life in term of accessibility .
in term of doing the thing that many of u take for granted day to day .
and one of the thing one of the goal of this initial study is to enable them to have digital autonomy where they by themselves can interact with a digital device using their mind something that you are calling telepathy .
digital telepathy where quadriplegia can communicate with a digital device in all the way that weve been talking about .
control the mouse cursor enough to be able to do all kind of stuff including play game and tweet and all that stuff .
and there a lot of people for whom life the basic of life are difficult because of the thing that have happened to them. . yeah movement is fundamental to our existence .
even speaking involves movement of mouth lip larynx .
and without that it is extremely debilitating .
and there are many many people that we can help .
and especially if you start to look at other form of movement disorder that are not from spinal cord injury but from al m or even stroke that lead you in order to aging ?
that lead you to lose some of that mobility that independence it is extremely debilitating .
and all of these are opportunity to help people to help alleviate suffering to help improve the quality of life .
but each of the thing you mentioned is it own little puzzle .
then you have increasing level of capability from a device a new orleans device .
and the first one you are focusing on is it is the beautiful word telepathy .
being able to communicate using your mind wirelessly with a digital device .
can you explain this exactly what we are talking about ?
yeah it is exactly that .
i think if you are able to control a cursor and able to click and be able to get access to computer or phone the whole world open up to you .
and i guess the word telepathy if you think about that a definitionally being able to transfer information from my brain to your brain without using some of the physical faculty that we have voice .
but the interesting thing here is i think the thing thats not obviously clear is how exactly it work .
in order to move a cursor there at least a couple of way of doing that .
one is you imagine yourself maybe moving a mouse with your hand or you can then which no one talked about imagine moving the cursor with your mind .
but it is there is a cognitive step here thats fascinating because you have to use the brain and you have to learn how to use the brain .
and you have to figure it out dynamically because you reward yourself if it work .
you there a step that this is it is a fascinating step because you have to get the brain to start firing in the way .
and you do that by imagining fake it till you make it .
and all of a sudden it creates the signal that if decoded correctly can create the effect .
and then there noise around that you have to figure all of that out .
but on the human side imagine the cursor moving is what you have to do .
yeah he say using the force .
of course .
thats is not that fascinating to you that it work ?
to me it is holy shit that work .
you could move a cursor with your mind .
a much a you are learning to use that thing that thing also learning about you our model is constantly updating the weight to say if someone is thinking about this sophisticated form of spiking pattern that mean to do this ?
the machine is learning about the human and the human is learning about the machine .
there is adaptability to the signal processing the decoding step .
and then there the adaptation of knowing the human being .
the same way if you give me a new mouse and i move it i learn very quickly about it sensitivity ill learn to move it slower .
and then there other kind of signal drift and all that stuff they have to adapt to .
both are adapting to each other .
thats a fascinating software challenge on both side the software on both on the human software and the the organic and the inorganic .
the organic and the inorganic .
anyway i had to rudely interrupt .
there the selection that nolan ha passed with flying color .
everything including that it is a bci friendly home all of that .
what is the process of the surgery and plantation the first moment when he get to use the system ?
the end to end we say patient in to patient out is anywhere between two to four hour .
in particular case for nolan it wa about three and a half hour and there many step leading to the actual robot insertion ?
there anesthesia induction and we do intra op ct imaging to make sure that we are drilling the hole in the location .
and this is also preplanned beforehand .
someone go through someone nolan would go through fmri and then they can think about wiggling their hand .
obviously due to their injury it is not gon na lead to any intended output .
but it is the same part of the brain that light up when you are imagining moving your finger to moving your finger .
and thats one of the way in which we can know where to place our thread .
cause we wan na go into whats called a hand knob area in the motor cortex and a much a possible densely put our electrode thread .
yeah we do intra op ct imaging to make sure and double check the location of the craniectomy .
and surgeon come in doe their thing in term of skin incision craniectomy drilling of the skull .
and then there many different layer of the brain .
there whats called a dura which is a very very thick layer that surround the brain .
that get resected in a process called directomy .
and that then exposed the pia in the brain that you wan na insert .
and by the time it is been around anywhere between one to one and a half hour robot come in doe his thing placement of the target inserting of the thread .
that take anywhere between twenty to forty minute in the particular case for nolan it wa under or over thirty minute .
and then after that the surgeon come in there a couple other step of inserting the dural substitute layer to protect the thread a a the brain .
and then screw in the implant and then skin flap and then suture and then you are out .
when nolan woke up what wa that ?
wa the recovery ?
and what wa the first time he wa able to use it ?
he wa immediately after the surgery an hour after the surgery a he wa waking up we did turn on the device make sure that we are recording neural signal .
and we did have a couple of signal that we noticed that he can modulate .
and what by modulate is that he can think about crunching his fist and you could see the spike disappear and appear .
and thats awesome .
and that wa immediate ?
immediate after in the recovery room .
how cool wa that ?
yeah thats a human being .
what did that feel for you ?
this device in a human being a first step of a gigantic journey .
it is a historic moment even that spike to be able to modulate that .
obviously there had been other a you mentioned pioneer that have participated in these groundbreaking bci investigational early feasibility study .
we are obviously standing in the shoulder of the giant here we are not the first one to put electrode in the human brain .
but leading up to the surgery there wa i definitely could not sleep .
there it is the first time that you are working in a completely new environment .
we brought something forty needle in case they break and we ended up using only one .
but that wa a level of complete unknown because it is a very very different environment .
and thats why we do clinical trial in the first place to be able to test these thing out .
extreme nervousness and many many sleepless night leading up to the surgery and definitely the day before the surgery and it wa an early morning surgery .
we started at seven in the morning and by the time it wa around ten thirty it wa everything wa done .
but first time seeing that number one huge relief that this thing is doing what it is supposed to do .
and two immense amount of gratitude for nolan and his family .
and then many others that have applied and that weve spoken to and will speak to are true pioneer in every war .
and i call them the neural astronaut or neural knot .
and you are not yet .
these amazing in the sixty ?
these amazing pioneer ?
exploring the unknown outwards in this case is inward .
but an incredible amount of gratitude for them to participate and play a part .
and it is a journey that we are embarking on together .
but also i think it wa that wa a very very important milestone but our work wa starting .
a lot of anticipation for what need to happen next ?
what are set of sequence of event that need to happen for u to make it worthwhile for both nolan a a u . to linger on that a huge congratulation to you and the team for that milestone .
i know there a lot of work left but that is thats exciting to see .
there thats a source of hope .
it is this first big step opportunity to help hundred of thousand of people and then maybe expand the realm of the possible for the human mind for million of people in the future .
it is exciting .
the opportunity are all ahead of u and to do that safely and to do that effectively wa fun to see .
a an engineer watching other engineer come together and do an epic thing that wa awesome .
huge congrats .
thank you thank you .
it is yeah could not have done it without the team .
and yeah thats the other thing that i i told the team a of this immense sense of optimism for the future .
it wa a it is a very important moment for the company needle to say a a hopefully for many others out there that we can help .
speaking of challenge the neuralink published a blog post describing that some of the thread are attracted .
and the performance a measured by bit per second dropped at first but then eventually it wa regained .
and that the whole story of how it wa regained is super interesting .
thats definitely something ill talk to to bliss and to nolan about but in general can you speak to this whole experience ?
how wa the performance regained ?
and the technical aspect of the thread being attracted and moving .
the main takeaway is that in the end the performance have come back and it is gotten better than it wa before .
he beat the world record yet again last week to eight.five bps .
he cranking and he improving .
the previous one wa that he said wa eight .
he said eight.five .
yeah the previous world record in human wa four.six .
it is almost double .
and his goal is to try to get to ten which is roughly around the median neuralinkr using a mouse with the hand .
it is getting there .
yeah the performance wa regained .
yeah better than before .
thats a story on it own of what took the bci team to recover that performance .
it wa mostly on the signal processing .
and a i mentioned we were looking at these spike output from the our electrode .
and what happened is that four week into the surgery we noticed that the thread have slowly come out of the brain .
and the way in which we noticed this at first obviously is that i think nolan wa the first to notice that his performance wa degrading .
and i think at the time we were also trying to do a bunch of different experimentation different algorithm different ui ux .
it wa expected that there will be variability in the performance but we did see a steady decline .
and then also the way in which we measure the health of the electrode or whether they are in the brain or not is by measuring impedance of the electrode .
we look at the interfacial the randall circuit let say they say the capacitance and the resistance between the electro surface and the medium .
and if that change in some dramatic way we have some indication or if you are not seeing spike on those channel you have some indication that somethings happening there .
and what we noticed is that looking at those impedance plot and spike rate plot and also because we have those electrode recording along the depth you are seeing some movement that indicated that the reservoir being pulled out .
and that obviously will have an implication on the model side because if you are the number of input that are going into the model is changing because you have le of them that model need to get updated ?
and but there were still signal .
and a i mentioned similar to how even when you place the signal on the surface of the brain or farther away outside the skull you still see some useful signal .
what we started looking at is not the spike occurrence through this bos algorithm that i mentioned but we started looking at the power of the frequency band that is interesting for nolan to be able to modulate .
once we change the algorithm for the implant to not give you the bos output but also these spike band power output that helped u be find the model with the new set of input .
and that wa the thing that ultimately gave u the performance back .
in term of and obviously the thing that we want ultimately and the thing that we are working towards is figuring out way in which we can keep those thread intact .
for a long a possible that we have many more channel going into the model .
thats by far the number one priority that the team is currently embarking on to understand how to prevent that from happening .
the thing that i will say also is that a i mentioned this is the first time ever that we are putting these thread in a human brain .
and human brain for size reference is ten time that of the monkey brain or the sheep brain .
and it is a very very different environment .
it move a lot more .
it is moved a lot more than we expected when we did nolans surgery .
and it is a very very different environment than what we are used to .
and this is why we do clinical trial .
we want to uncover some of these issue and failure mode earlier than later .
in many way it is provided u with this enormous amount of data and information to be able to solve this .
and this is something that new orleans is extremely good at .
once we have set up clear objective and engineering problem we have enormous amount of talent across many many discipline to be able to come together and fix the problem very very quickly .
but it sound one of the fascinating challenge here is for the system and the decoding side to be adaptable across different timescales .
whether it is movement of thread or different aspect of signal drift on the software of the human brain something changing nolan talk about cursor drift they could be corrected and there a whole ux challenge to how to do that .
it sound adaptability is a fundamental property that ha to be engineered in .
it is .
i think a a company we are extremely vertically integrated .
we make these thin film array in our own micro fab .
yeah there you said built in house .
this whole paragraph here from this blog post is pretty gangster .
building the technology described above ha been no small feat .
and there a bunch of link here that i recommend people click on .
we constructed inhouse micro fabrication capability to rapidly produce various iteration of thin film array that constitute our electrode thread .
we created a custom femtosecond laser mill to manufacture component with micro level precision .
i think there a tweet associated with this .
thats the whole thing that we can get into .
yeah this .
what are we looking at here ?
this thing .
in le than one minute our custom made femtosecond laser mill cut this geometry in the tip of our needle .
we are looking at this weirdly shaped needle .
the tip is only ten to twelve micron and with only slightly larger than the diameter of a red blood cell the small size allows threat to be inserted with minimal damage to the cortex .
whats interesting about this geometry ?
well look at this geometry of a needle .
this is the needle thats engaging with the loop in the thread .
they are the one that thread the loop and then peel it from the silicon backing .
and then this is the thing that get inserted into the tissue .
and then this pull out leaving the thread .
and this a notch or the shark tooth that we used to call is the thing that is grasping the loop .
and then it is designed in such a way such that when you pull out it leaf the loop .
and the robot is controlling this needle .
this is housed in a cannula .
and the robot ha a lot of the optic that look for where the loop is .
there a four hundred and five nanometer light that cause the polyimide to fluoresce that you can locate the location of the loop .
the loop light up ?
micron precision process .
whats interesting about the robot that it take to do that thats pretty crazy .
thats pretty crazy that robot is able to get this precision .
yeah our robot is quite heavy our current version of it .
there is it is a giant granite slab that weighs about a ton .
because it need to be sensitive to vibration environmental vibration .
and then a the head is moving at the speed that is moving there a lot of motion control to make sure that you can achieve that level of precision .
a lot of optic that zoom in on that .
we are working on next generation of the robot that is lighter easier to transport .
it is a feat to move the robot to insert the machine .
and it is far superior to a human surgeon at this time for this particular task .
let alone you try to thread a loop in a sewing kit this is we are talking fraction of human hair .
these thing it is not visible .
continuing the paragraph we developed novel hardware and software testing system such a our accelerated lifetime testing rack and simulated surgery environment which is pretty cool to stress test and validate the robustness of our technology .
we performed many rehearsal of our surgery to refine our procedure and make them second nature .
this is pretty cool .
we practice surgery on proxy with all the hardware and instrument needed in our mock or in the engineering space .
this help u rapidly test and measure .
there proxy .
yeah this proxy is super cool .
there a 3d printed skull from the image that is taken at barrow a a this hydrogel mix synthetic polymer thing that mimic the mechanical property of the brain .
it also ha vasculature of the person .
what we are talking about here and there a lot of work that ha gone into making this set proxy that it is about finding the concentration of these different synthetic polymer to get the set of consistency for the needle dynamic a they are being inserted .
but we practice this surgery with the person nolans physiology and brain many many time prior to doing the surgery .
yeah where doe someone stand ?
what you are looking at is the picture .
this is in our office of this corner of the robot engineering space that we have created this mock or space that look exactly what they would experience all the staff would experience during their actual surgery .
it is any dense rehearsal where exactly where you are going to stand at what point and you practice that over and over and over again with an exact anatomy of someone that you are going to surgery .
and it got to a point where a lot of our engineer when we created a craniectomy they are that look very familiar .
weve seen that before .
and there wisdom you can gain through doing the same thing over and over and over .
it is a dura dream of sushi thing .
because then it is olympic athlete visualizes the olympics .
and then once you show up it feel easy .
it feel any other day .
it feel almost boring winning the gold medal .
cause you visualize this many time .
youve practiced this many time that nothing about u knew it is boring .
you win the gold medal is boring .
and the experience they talk about is mostly relief .
probably that they do not have to visualize it anymore .
the power of the mind to visualize and where there a whole field that study where muscle memory lie in cerebellum .
yeah it is incredible .
i think it wa a good place to ask the big question that people might have is how do we know every aspect of this that you describe is safe .
at the end of the day the gold standard is look at the tissue .
what trauma did you cause the tissue and doe that correlate to whatever behavioral anomaly that you may have seen ?
and thats the language to which we can communicate about the safety of inserting something into the brain and what type of trauma that you can cause .
we have an entire department department of pathology that look at these tissue slice .
there are many step that are involved in doing this once you have study that are launched to with particular end point in mind .
at some point you have to euthanize the animal and then you go through a necropsy to collect the brain tissue sample .
you fix them in formalin and you gross them you section them and you look at individual slice to see what reaction or lack thereof exists .
thats the the language to which fda speaks and a for u to evaluate the safety of the insertion mechanism a a the threat at various different time point both acute .
anywhere between zero to three month to beyond three month .
those are the detail of an extremely high standard of safety that ha to be reached .
fda supervises this but there in general a very high standard .
and every aspect of this including the surgery i think matthew mcdougal ha mentioned it the standard is let say how to put it politely higher than maybe some other operation that we take for granted .
the standard for all the surgical stuff here is extremely high .
very high .
it is a highly highly regulated environment with the governing agency that scrutinize every medical device that get marketed .
and i think it is a good thing .
it is good to have those high standard and we try to hold extremely high standard to understand what damage of any these innovative emerging technology and new technology that we are building are .
and far we have been extremely impressed by lack of immune response from these thread .
speaking of which you talk to me with excitement about the histology and some of the image that you are able to share .
can you explain to me what we are looking at ?
yeah what you are looking at is a stained tissue image .
this is a sectioned tissue slice from an animal that wa implanted for seven month .
a chronic time point .
and you are seeing all these different color .
and each color indicates specific type of cell type .
purple and pink are astrocyte and microglia respectively they are type of glial cell .
and the other thing that people may not be aware of is your brain is not made up of soup of neuron and axon .
there are other cell glial cell that is the glue and also react .
if there are any trauma or damage to the tissue .
with the brown or the neuron ?
the brown or the neuron .
what you are seeing is in this macro image you are seeing these circle highlighted in white the insertion site .
and when you zoom into one of those the thread .
and then in this particular case i think we are seeing about the sixteen wire that are going into the page .
and the incredible thing here is the fact that you have the neuron that are these brown structure or brown circular or elliptical thing that are touching and abutting the thread .
what this is saying is that there zero trauma thats caused during this insertion .
with these neural interface these microelectros that you insert that is one of the most common mode of failure .
when you insert these thread the utare it cause neuronal death around the site because you are inserting a foreign object ?
and that elicit these immune response through microglia and astrocyte .
they form this protective layer around it .
not only are you killing the neuron cell but you are also creating this protective layer that then prevents you from recording neural signal because you are getting further and further away from the neuron that you are trying to record .
and that is the biggest mode of failure .
and in this particular example in that insert it is about fifty micron with that scale bar the neuron seem to be attracted to it .
and there certainly no trauma .
thats such a beautiful image by the way .
the brown of the neuron for some reason i can not look away it is cool .
and the way that these thing your tissue generally do not have these beautiful color .
this is multiplex stain that us these different protein that are staining these at different color .
we use very standard set of staining technique with he eba1 and nuen and gfap .
if you go to the next image this is also illustrates the second point because you can make an argument .
and initially when we saw the previous image we said are the thread floating ?
what is happening here ?
are we looking at the thing ?
what we did is we did another stain and this is all done inhouse of this lysan trichrome stain which is in blue that show these collagen layer .
the blue you do not want the blue around the implant thread because that mean that there some scarring thats happened .
and what you are seeing if you look at individual thread is that you do not see any of the blue which mean that there ha been absolutely or very very minimal to a point where it is not detectable amount of trauma in these inserted thread .
that presumably is one of the big benefit of having this flexible thread .
yeah we think this is primarily due to the size a a the flexibility of the thread .
also the fact that r1 is avoiding vascular we are not disrupting or we are not causing damage to the vessel and not breaking any of the bloodbrain barrier ha caused the immune response to be muted .
but this is also a nice illustration of the size of thing .
this is the tip of the thread .
yeah those are neuron .
they are and they are neuron and this is the thread listening and the electrode are positioned how ?
yeah this is what you are looking at it is not electrode themselves those are the conductive wire .
each of those should probably be two micron in width .
what we are looking at is we are looking at the coronal slice .
we are looking at some slice of the tissue .
a you go deeper you will obviously have le and le of the tapering of the thread .
but yeah the point being that there cell around the inserted site which is an incredible thing to see .
ive never seen anything this .
how easy and safe is it to remove the implant ?
yeah it depends on when .
in the first three month or after the surgery there a lot of tissue modeling thats happening .
similar to when you got a cut you obviously start over first couple of week or depending on the size of the wound scar tissue forming ?
there are these contracted and then in the end they turn it to scab and you can scab it off .
the same thing happens in the brain .
and it is a very dynamic environment .
and before the scar tissue or the neo membrane or the new membrane that form it is quite easy to pull them out .
and there minimal trauma thats caused during that .
once the scar tissue form and with nolan a we believe that thats the thing thats currently anchoring the thread .
we havent seen any more movement since then .
they are quite stable .
it get harder to completely extract the thread .
our current method for removing the device is cutting the thread leaving the tissue intact and then unscrewing and taking the implant out .
and that hole is now gon na be plugged with either another narrow link or with a plasticbased cap .
is it to leave the thread in there forever ?
yeah we think .
weve done study where we left them there .
and one of the biggest concern that we had is do they migrate and do they get to a point where they should not be ?
again once the scar tissue form they get anchored in place .
and i should also say that when we say upgrade we are not talking in theory here .
weve upgraded many many time .
most of our monkey or nonhuman primate nhp have been upgraded .
pedro who you saw playing mine pong ha the latest version of the device since two year ago and is seemingly very happy and healthy and fat .
whats designed for the future the upgrade procedure ?
maybe for nolan what would the upgrade look ?
it wa essentially what you are mentioning is there a way to upgrade the device internally where you take it apart and keep the capsule and upgrade the internals ?
yeah there are a couple of different thing here .
for nolan if we were to upgrade what we would have to do is either cut the thread or extract the thread depending on the situation there in term of how they are anchored or scarred in .
if you were to remove them with the dural substitute you have an intact grain you can reinsert different thread with the updated implant package .
there are a couple of different other way that we are thinking about the future of what the upgradeable system look .
one is at the moment we currently remove the dural this thick layer that protects the brain but that is the thing that proliferates the scar tissue formation .
typically the general good rule of thumb is you wan na leave the nature a is and not disrupt it a much .
we are looking at way to insert the thread through the dural which come with different set of challenge such a it is a pretty thick thick layer how do you penetrate that without breaking the needle ?
we are looking at different needle design for that a a the loop engagement .
the other biggest challenge are it is quite opaque optically with white light illumination how do you avoid still this biggest advantage that we have of avoiding basketure ?
how do you image through that ?
how do you still mediate that ?
there are other imaging technique that we are looking at to enable that but our hypothesis is that based on some of the early evidence that we have doing through the dural insertion will cause minimal scarring that cause them to be much easier to extract over time .
and then one can be under the dural one can be above the dural being the plug for the skull .
that would allow you to reuse the thread ?
this lead to the natural question of what is the pathway to scaling the increase in the number of thread ?
is that a priority ?
is that whats the technical challenger ?
yeah that is a priority .
for next version of the implant the key metric that we are looking to improve are number of channel recording from more and more neuron .
we have a pathway to go from currently onezero to hopefully threezero if not sixzero by end of this year .
and then end of next year we wan na get to even more sixteenzero .
there a couple of limitation to that .
one is obviously being able to photo lithographically print those wire .
a i mentioned it is two micron in width and spacing .
obviously there are chip that are much more advanced than those type of resolution .
and we have some of the tool that we have brought in the house to be able to do that .
trace will be narrower that you have to have more of the wire coming up into the chip .
chip also can not linearly consume more energy a you have more and more channel .
there a lot of innovation in the circuit and architecture a a the circuit design topology to make them lower power .
you need to also think about if you have all of these spike how do you send that off to the end application ?
you need to think about then with limitation there and potentially innovation in signal processing .
physically one of the biggest challenge is gon na be the interface .
it is always the interface that break bonding the stemfilm array to the electronics .
it start to become very very highly dense interconnects .
how do you connect the rise that ?
there a lot of innovation in the 3d integration in the recent year that we can take advantage of .
one of the biggest challenge that we do have is forming this hermetic barrier ?
that this is an extremely harsh environment that we are in the brain .
how do you test that ?
whats the development environment ?
yeah to simulate that harshness .
yeah this is where the accelerated life tester essentially is a brain in a vat .
it is a vessel that is made up of and again for all intent and purpose for this particular type of test your brain is a salt water .
and you can also put some other set of chemical reactive oxygen specie that get at these interface and trying to cause a reaction to pull it apart .
but you could also increase the rate at which these interface are aging by increasing temperature .
what we do is we increase in our alt chamber by twenty degree celsius that increase the aging by four time essentially one day in alt chamber is four day in calendar year .
and we look at whether the implant still are intact including the thread .
and operation and all of that .
and operation and all of that .
obviously it is not an exact same environment a a brain because brain ha mechanical other more biological group that attack at it but it is a good test environment testing environment for at least the enclosure and the strength of the enclosure .
and weve had implant the current version of the implant that ha been in there for close to two and a half year which is equivalent to a decade and they seem to be fine .
it is interesting that the brain a close approximation is warm salt water hot salt water is a good testing environment .
by the way i am drinking element which is salt water which is making me kinda it doesnt have computational power the way the brain doe but maybe in term of all the characteristic is quite similar and i am consuming it .
yeah you have to get it at the ph too .
and then consciousness will emerge .
by the way the other thing that also is interesting about our enclosure is if you look at our implant it is not your common looking medical implant that usually is in case in a titanium can thats laser welded .
we use this polymer called pctfe polychlorotriphloroethylene which is commonly used in blister pack .
when you have a pill and you are trying to pop a pill there that plastic membrane thats what this is .
no one ever used this except u . and the reason we wanted to do this is because it is electromagnetically transparent .
when we talked about the electromagnetic inductive charging with titanium can usually if you wan na do something that you have to have a sapphire window and it is a very very tough process to scale .
you are doing a lot of iteration here in every aspect of this the material the software the whole ... the whole shipping .
you mentioned scaling .
is it possible to have multiple neural link device a one of the way of scaling to have multiple neural link device implanted ?
thats the goal thats the goal .
yeah weve had our monkey have had two neural link one in each hemisphere .
and then we are also looking at potential of having one in motor cortex one in visual cortex and one in wherever other cortex .
focusing on a particular function one neural link device .
i wonder if there some level of customization that can be done on the compute side .
for the motor cortex .
thats the goal .
and we talk about at neurallink building a generalized neural interface to the brain .
and that also is strategically how we are approaching this with marketing and also with regulatory which is hey look we have the robot and the robot can access any part of the cortex .
now we are focused on motor cortex with current version of the n1 thats specialized for motor decoding task .
but also at the end of the day there a general compute available there .
but typically if you wan na get down to hyperoptimizing for power and efficiency you do need to get to some specialized function ?
but what we are saying is that hey you are now used to this robotic insertion technique which took many many year of showing data and conversation with the fda .
and also internally convincing ourselves that this is safe .
and now the difference is that if we go to other part of the brain visual cortex which we are interested in a our second product obviously it is a completely different environment .
the cortex is laid out very very differently .
it is gon na be more stimulation focus rather than recording creating visual percept .
but in the end we are using the same thin film array technology .
we are using the same robot insertion technology .
we are using the same packaging technology .
now it is more the conversation focused around what are the difference and what are the implication of those difference in safety and efficacy .
the way you said second product is both hilarious and awesome to me .
that product being restoring sight for blind people .
can you speak to stimulating the visual cortex ?
the possibility there are incredible to be able to give that gift back to people who do not have sight or even any aspect of that .
can you speak to the challenge of ... there several challenge here .
one of which is you said from recording to stimulation .
any aspect of that that you are both excited and see the challenge of .
yeah i guess ill start by saying that we have been capable of stimulating through our thin film array a a electronics for year .
we have demonstrated some of that capability for reanimating the limb in the spinal cord .
obviously for the current efs study weve hardware disabled that .
thats something that we wanted to embark a a separate journey .
and obviously there are many many different way to write information into the brain .
the way in which we are doing that is through electrical passing electrical current and causing that to change the local environment that you can artificially cause the neuron to depolarize in nearby area .
for vision specifically the way our visual system work it is both understood .
anything with brain there are aspect of it thats understood but in the end we do not know anything .
but the way visual system work is that you have photon hitting your eye .
and in your eye there are these specialized cell called photoreceptor cell that convert the photon energy into electrical signal .
and then they get that then get projected to your back of your head your visual cortex .
it go through a thymic system called lgn that then project it out .
and then in the visual cortex there visual area one or v one .
and then there a bunch of other higher level processing layer v two v three .
and there are interesting parallel .
and when you study the behavior of these convolutional neural network what the different layer of the network is detecting first they are detecting these edge and they are then detecting some more natural curve .
and then they start to detect object ?
similar thing happens in the brain .
and a lot of that ha been inspired and also it is been exciting to see some of the correlation there .
but thing from there where this cognition arise and where is color encoded ?
there not a lot of understanding fundamental understanding there .
in term of bringing sight back to those that are blind there are many different form of blindness .
there million people one million people in the u that are legally blind .
that mean certain score below in the visual test .
i think it is something if you can see something at twenty foot distance that normal people can see at two hundred foot distance if you are worse than that you are legally blind .
for the method that mean you can not function effectively .
using sight in the world .
yeah to navigate your environment .
and yeah there are different form of blindness .
there are form of blindness where there some degeneration of your retina his photoreceptor cell .
and the rest of your visual processing that i described is intact .
and for those type of individual you may not need to maybe stick electrode into the visual cortex .
you can build retinal prosthetic device that replaces the function of that retinal cell that are degenerated .
and there are many company that are working on that .
but thats a very small slice .
the obvious significance though smaller slice of folk that are legally blind .
if there any damage along that circuitry whether it is in the optic nerve or the lgn circuitry or any break in that circuit thats not gon na work for you .
and the source of where you need to cause that visual percept to happen because your biological mechanism of not doing that is by placing electrode in the visual cortex in the back of your head .
and the way in which this would work is that you would have an external camera whether it is something a unsophisticated a a gopro or some wearable rayban type glass that metas working on that capture a scene .
and that scene is then converted to a set of electrical impulse or stimulation pulse that you would activate in your visual cortex through these thin film array .
and by playing some concerted orchestra of these stimulation pattern you can create whats called phosphine which are these white yellowish dot that you can also create by pressing your eye .
you can create those percept by stimulating the visual cortex .
and the name of the game is have many of those and have those percept be the phosphine be a small a possible that you can start to tell apart they are the individual pixel of the screen .
this is incredible .
this is incredible .
you would be adding pixel and your brain would start to figure out what those pixel mean .
and with different kind of the system and the signal processing on all front .
the thing that it is a couple of thing .
one is obviously if you are blind from birth the way brain work especially in the early age neuroplasticity is nothing other than your brain and different part of your brain fighting for the limited territory .
and very very quickly case where people that are you also hear about people who are blind that have heightened sense of hearing or some other sens .
and the reason for that is is that cortex thats not used get taken over by these different part of the cortex .
for those type of individual i guess they are going to have to now map some other part of their sens into what they call vision but it is going to be obviously a very very different conscious experience before .
i think thats an interesting caveat .
the other thing that also is important to highlight is that we are currently limited by our biology in term of the wavelength that we can see .
there a very very small wavelength that is a visible light wavelength that we can see with our eye .
but when you have an external camera with this bci system you are not limited to that .
you can have infrared you can have uv you can have whatever other spectrum that you want to see .
and whether that get mapped to some weird conscious experience ive no idea .
but when i oftentimes i talk to people about the goal of neural ink being going beyond the limit of our biology .
thats what .
and if you are able to control the raw signal is that when we use our sight we are getting the photon and there not much processing on it .
if you are able to control that signal maybe you can do some processing .
maybe you do object detection ahead of time .
you are doing some preprocessing and there a lot of possibility to explore that .
it is not increasing thermal imaging that stuff but it is also doing some interesting processing .
my theory of how visual system work also is that there many thing happening in the world and there a lot of photon that are going into your eye .
and it is unclear exactly where some of the preprocessing step are happening but i think that from a fundamental perspective there much the reality that we are in if it is a reality is there much data .
and i think human are unable to eat enough to process all that information .
there some filtering that doe happen whether that happens in the retina whether that happens in different layer of the visual cortex unclear .
what you do is you end up adding these filter to narrow the information thats coming to you and being captured .
and i think thing our experience or our drug prophyllol that anesthetic drug or psychedelics what they are doing is they are swapping out these filter and putting in new one or removing all their one and controlling our conscious experience .
yeah man not to distract from the topic but i took a very high dose of ayahuasca in the amazon jungle .
yes it is a nice way to think about it .
you are swapping out different experience and we are narrowing being able to control that primarily at first to improve function not for entertainment purpose or enjoyment purpose but giving back lost function .
giving back lost function .
and there when the function is completely lost anything is a huge help .
would you implant a neural link device in your own brain ?
absolutely maybe not now but absolutely .
what capability once reached you start getting real curious and almost get a little antsy jealous of people that get a you watch them getting planted .
yeah i think even with our early participant if they start to do thing that i can not do which i think is in the realm of possibility for them to be able to get fifteen twenty if not one hundred bps ?
there nothing that fundamentally stop u from being able to achieve that type of performance .
i would certainly get jealous that they can do that .
i should say that watching nolan i get a little jealous because he having much fun and it seems such a chill way to play video game .
the thing that also is hard to appreciate sometimes is that he doing these thing while talking and it is multitasking ?
it is clearly it is obviously cognitively intensive but similar to how when we talk we move our hand these thing are multitasking he able to do that .
and you will not be able to do that with other assistive technology a far a i am aware .
if you are obviously using an eye tracking device you are very much fixated on that thing that you are trying to do .
and if you are using voice control if you say some other stuff yeah you do not get to use that .
yeah the multitasking aspect of that is interesting .
it is not the bps for the primary task it is the parallelization of multitasking .
if you take if you measure the bps for the entirety of the human organism .
if you are talking and doing a thing with your mind and looking around also there a lot of parallelization that can be happening .
but i think at some point for him if he want to achieve those high level bps it doe require full attention ?
and thats a separate circuitry that is a big mystery how attention work and .
yeah attention cognitive load ive done ive read a lot of literature on people doing two task .
you have your primary task and a secondary task .
and the secondary task is a source of distraction .
and how doe that affect the performance of the primary task ?
and there depending on the task there a lot of interesting this is an interesting computational device ?
and i think there who say the least ?
a lot of novel insight that can be gained from everything .
i personally am surprised that nolans able to do such incredible control of the cursor while talking .
and also being nervous at the same time because he talking all of u are if you are talking in front of the camera you get nervous .
all of those are coming into play he able to still achieve high performance .
surprising all of this is amazing .
and i think after researching this in depth i wanted your link .
and also the safety get in line .
we should say the registry is for people who have quadriplegia and all that stuff .
there would be a separate line for people .
they are curious myself .
now that nolan patient p1 is part of the ongoing prime study whats the high level vision for p2 p3 p4 p5 and the expansion into other human being that are getting to experience this implant ?
yeah the primary goal is for our study in the first place is to achieve safety endpoint understand safety of this device a a the implantation process .
and also at the same time understand the efficacy and the impact that it could have on the potential user life .
and because you have and you are living with tetraplegia it doesnt mean your situation is same a another person living with tetraplegia .
it is wildly wildly varying .
and it is something that we are hoping to also understand how our technology can serve not a very small slice of those individual but broader group of individual and being able to get the feedback to build the best product for them .
and thats required before you can then market the device .
and thats how it work in the u and generally around the world .
thats the process you follow .
our goal is to understand from people nolan p2 p3 future participant what aspect of our device need to improve .
if it turn out that people are i do not the fact that it last only six hour .
i wan na be able to use this computer for twenty four hour .
that is a user need and user requirement which we can only find out from being able to engage with them .
before the pivotal study there a rapid innovation based on individual experience .
you are learning from individual people how they use it the high resolution detail in term of cursor control and signal and all that stuff to life experience .
yeah there hardware change but also firmware update .
even when we had that recovery event for nolan he now ha the new firmware that he ha been updated with .
and similar to how your phone get updated all the time with new firmware for security patch whatever new functionality ui ?
and thats something that is possible with our implant .
it is not a static onetime device that can only do the thing that it said it can do .
similar to tesla you can do over the air firmware update and now you have completely new user interface and all this bell and whistle and improvement on everything the latest ?
when we say generalized platform thats what we are talking about .
yeah thats cool .
how the app that nolan is using there calibration all that stuff .
and then there update .
you click and get an update .
what other future capability are you looking to ?
you said vision thats a fascinating one .
what about accelerated typing or speech or this stuff ?
and what else is there ?
yeah those are still in the realm of movement program .
largely speaking we have two program .
we have the movement program and we have the vision program .
the movement program currently is focused around the digital freedom .
a you can easily guess if you can control to the cursor in the digital space you could move anything into physical space .
robotic arm wheelchair your environment or even whether it is through the phone or directly to those interface to those machine .
we are looking at way to expand those type of capability even for nolan .
that requires conversation with the fda and showing safety data for if there a robotic arm or wheelchair that we can guarantee that they are not going to hurt themselves accidentally ?
it is very different if you are moving stuff in the digital domain versus in the physical space you can potentially cause harm to the participant .
we are working through that now .
speech doe involve different area of the brain .
speech prosthetic is very very fascinating .
and there been a lot of amazing work thats been happening in academia .
sergei stavisky at uc davis jamie henderson and late krishna shnoy at stanford doing some incredible amount of work in improving speech neuro prosthetics .
and those are looking more at part of the motor cortex that are controlling these focal articulator and being able to even by mouthing the word or imagine speech you can pick up those signal .
the more sophisticated higher level processing area the broca area or warnicks area those are still very very big mystery in term of the underlying mechanism of how all that stuff work .
but yeah i think i think neurolynxs eventual goal is to understand those thing and be able to provide a platform and tool to be able to understand that and study that .
this is where i get to the pothead question .
do you think we can start getting insight into thing thought ?
speech is there a muscular component you said .
there the act of producing sound .
but then what about the internal thing cognition ?
low level thought and high level thought .
do you think well start noticing signal that could be picked up they could they could be understood they could be maybe used in order to interact with the outside world ?
in some way i guess this start to get into the hard problem of consciousness .
and on one hand all of these are at some point set of electrical signal that from there maybe it in itself is giving you the cognition or the meaning or somehow human mind is incredibly amazing storytelling machine .
we are telling ourselves and folding ourselves that there some interesting meaning here .
but i certainly think that pci and pci at the end of the day is a set of tool that help you study the underlying mechanism and in both local but also broader sense .
and whether there some interesting pattern of electrical signal that mean you are thinking this versus and you can either learn from many many set of data to correlate some of that and be able to do mind reading or not i am not sure .
i certainly would not pull that out a a possibility but i think pci alone probably can not do that .
there probably additional set of tool and framework and also hard problem of consciousness at the end of the day is rooted in this philosophical question of what is the meaning of it all ?
it is the nature of our existence .
where is the mind emerged from this complex network ?
yeah how doe the subjective experience emerge from a bunch of spike electrical spike ?
yeah we do think about pci and what we are building a a tool for understanding the mind the brain the only question that matter .
there there is some biological existence proof of what it would take to start to form some of these experience that may be unique .
if you look at every one of our brain they are two hemisphere .
there a leftsided brain there a sided brain and unless you have some other condition you normally do not feel left leg or leg .
what is happening there ?
if you look at the two hemisphere there a structure that connectorized the two called the corpus callosum that is supposed to have around two hundred to three hundred million connection or axon .
whether that mean thats the number of interface and electrode that we need to create some mind meld or from that whatever new conscious experience that you can experience .
but i do think that there an interesting existence proof that we all have .
and that threshold is unknown at this time .
yeah these thing everything in this domain is speculation ?
and then there will be youd be continuously pleasantly surprised .
do a world where there million of people ten of million hundred of million of people walking around with a neural link device or multiple neural link device in their brain ?
first of all there are if you look at worldwide people suffering from movement disorder and visual deficit thats in the ten if not hundred of million of people .
that alone i think there a lot of benefit and potential good that we can do with this type of technology .
and when you start to get into neural psychiatric application depression anxiety hunger or obesity ?
mood control of appetite .
that start to become very real to everyone .
not to mention that every most people on earth have a smartphone .
and once bci start competing with a smartphone a a preferred methodology of interacting with the digital world that also becomes an interesting thing .
yeah yeah this is even before going to that ?
there is almost the entire world that could benefit from these type of thing .
and then yeah if we are talking about next generation of how we interface with machine or even ourselves in many way i think bci can play a role in that .
and some of the thing that i also talk about is i do think that there is a real possibility that you could see eight billion people walking around with neuralink .
thank you much for pushing ahead .
and i look forward to that exciting future .
thanks for having me .
thanks for listening to this conversation with dj sa .
and now dear friend here matthew mcdougal the head neurosurgeon at neuralink .
when did you first become fascinated with the human brain ?
since forever a far back a i can remember ive been interested in the human brain .
i wa a thoughtful kid and a bit of an outsider .
and you sit there thinking about what the most important thing in the world are .
in your little tiny adolescent brain .
and if we knew more about how that worked how the brain encodes information and generates desire and generates agony and suffering we could do more about it .
you think about all the great triumph in human history you think about all the horrific tragedy you think about the holocaust you think about any prison full of human story and all of those problem boil down to neurochemistry .
if you get a little bit of control over that you provide people the option to do better .
and in the way i read history the way people have dealt with having better tool is that they most often in the end do better with huge asterisk .
but i think it is an interesting worthy and noble pursuit to give people more option more tool .
yeah thats a fascinating way to look at human history .
you imagine all these neurobiological mechanism stalin hitler all of these jankos khan all of them had a brain .
it is a bunch of neuron a few ten of billion of neuron gaining a bunch of information over a period of time .
they have a set of module that doe language and memory and all that .
and from there in the case of those people they are able to murder million of people .
and all that coming from there not some glorified notion of a dictator of this enormous mind or something this .
it is the brain .
a lot of that ha to do with how people that can organize those around them .
other brain .
yeah and i always find it interesting to look to primatology look to our closest nonhuman relative for clue a to how human are going to behave and what particular human are able to achieve .
and you look at chimpanzee and bonobo and they are similar but different in their social structure particularly .
and i went to emory in atlanta and studied under friend to all the great friend to all who wa the leading primatologist who recently died .
and his work at looking at chimp through the lens of how you would watch an episode of friend and understand the motivation of the character interacting with each other .
he would look at a chimp colony and apply that lens massively oversimplifying it .
and primarily it is the thing we want out of life food sex companionship power .
you can understand chimp and bonobo behavior in the same light much more easily .
and i think doing give you the tool you need to reduce human behavior from the false complexity that we layer onto it with language and look at it in term of these human are looking for companionship sex food power .
and i think thats a pretty powerful tool to have in understanding human behavior .
and i went to the amazon jungle for a few week and it is a very visceral reminder that a lot of life on earth is trying to get laid .
they are all screaming at each other .
i saw a lot of monkey and they are trying to impress each other or maybe there a battle for power but a lot of the battle for power ha to do with them getting laid .
breeding right often go with alpha status .
and if you can get a piece of that then you are gon na do .
and wed to think that we are somehow fundamentally different but especially when it come to primate where we are not we can use fancier poetic language but maybe some of the underlying drive that motivate u are similar .
yeah i think thats true .
and all of that is coming from this the brain .
when did you first start studying the brain a a biological mechanism ?
the moment i got to college i started looking around for lab that i could do neuroscience work in .
and sure enough there are big crossover between the two .
it get to a key point that i think go under recognized .
one of the thing people do not recognize or appreciate about the human brain enough and that is that it control or ha a huge role in almost everything that your body doe .
you try to name an example of something in your body that is not directly controlled or massively influenced by the brain .
and it is pretty hard .
you might say bone healing or something but even those system the hypothalamus and pituitary end up playing a role in coordinating the endocrine system that doe have a direct influence on say the calcium level in your blood that go to bone healing .
nonobvious connection between those thing implicate the brain a a potent prime mover in all of health .
one of the thing i realized in the other direction too how most of the system in the body integrated with the human brain they affect the brain also the immune system .
i think there people who study alzheimers and those kind of thing .
it is surprising how much you can understand of that from the immune system from the other system that do not obviously seem to have to do anything to do with the nervous system .
they all play together .
yeah you could understand how that would be driven by evolution too in some simple example .
it is pretty advantageous for your immune system to tell your brain hey now be antisocial for a few day .
do not go be the life of the party tonight .
in fact maybe cuddle up somewhere warm under a blanket and stay there for a day or two .
and sure enough that tends to be the behavior that both in animal and in human .
if you get sick elevated level of interleukin in your blood and tnf alpha in your blood ask the brain to cut back on social activity and even moving around .
you have lower locomotor activity in animal that are infected with virus .
from there the early day in neuroscience to surgery when did that step happen ?
it is a leap .
it wa an evolution of thought .
i wanted to study the brain .
i started studying the brain in undergrad in this neuroimmunology lab .
i from there realized at some point that i did not want to generate knowledge .
i wanted to effect real change in the actual world in actual people life .
and after having not thought about going into medical school i wa on a track to go into a phd program .
i said id that option .
id to potentially help tangible people in front of me .
and doing a little digging found that there exists these md phd program where you can choose not to choose between them and do both .
and i went to usc for medical school and had a joint phd program with caltech where i met chose that program particularly because of a researcher at caltech named richard anderson who one of the godfather of primate neuroscience .
it ha a macaque lab where utah array and other electrode were being inserted into the brain of monkey to try to understand how intention were being encoded in the brain .
and i wa at usc a i mentioned that happens to be one of the great neurosurgery program .
and i met these truly epic neurosurgeon alex kalesi and micah puzzo and steve gianata and marty wei these epic people that were human being in front of me .
and it changed my thinking from neurosurgeon are distant god that live on another planet and occasionally come and visit u to these are human that have problem and are people and there nothing fundamentally preventing me from being one of them .
and at the last minute in medical school i changed gear from going into a different specialty and switched into neurosurgery which cost me a year .
i had to do another year of research because i wa far along in the process that to switch into neurosurgery the deadline had already passed .
it wa a decision that cost time but absolutely worth it .
what wa the hardest part of the training on the neurosurgeon track ?
yeah two thing i think that residency in neurosurgery is a competition of pain of how much pain can you eat and smile ?
and there workout restriction that are not they are viewed at i think internally among the resident a weakness .
and most neurosurgery resident try to work a hard a they can .
and that i think necessarily mean working long hour and sometimes over the work hour limit .
and we care about being compliant with whatever regulation are in front of u . but i think more important than that people wan na give their all in becoming a better neurosurgeon because the stake are high .
and it is a real fight to get resident to say go home at the end of their shift and not stay and do more surgery .
are you saying one of the hardest thing is getting forcing them to get sleep and rest and all this stuff ?
historically that wa the case .
i think the next generation i think the next generation is more compliant and more selfcare .
we think thats what you mean .
wow thats fascinating .
what wa the second thing ?
the personality and maybe the two are connected .
wa it pretty competitive ?
it is competitive and it is also a we touched on earlier primate power .
and i think neurosurgery ha long had this aura of mystique and excellence and whatever about it .
and it is an invitation i think for people that are cloaked in that authority a boardcertified neurosurgeon is a walking fallacious appeal to authority .
you have license to walk into any room and act you are an expert on whatever .
and fighting that tendency is not something that most neurosurgeon do .
humility is not the forte .
yeah one of the i have friend who know you and whenever they speak about you that you have the surprising quality for neurosurgeon of humility .
which i think indicates it is not a common a perhaps in other profession .
because there is a gigantic heroic aspect to neurosurgery .
and i think it get to people head a little bit .
yeah i think that allows me to play at an elon company because elon one of his strength i think is to instantly see through fallacy from authority .
nobody walk into a room that he in and say god damn it you have to trust me .
i am the guy that built the last ten rocket or something .
and he say you did it wrong and we can do it better .
or i am the guy that kept ford alive for the last fifty year .
you listen to me on how to build car .
and you do not walk into a room that he in and say i am a neurosurgeon let me tell you how to do it .
i can think from first principle myself .
thank you very much .
and here how i think it ought to be done .
let go try it and see who .
and thats proven i think over and over in his case to be a very powerful approach .
if we take that tangent there a fascinating interdisciplinary achievement in your link that you get to interact with including elon .
what do you think is the secret to a successful team ?
what have you learned from getting to observe these folk ?
world expert in different discipline work together .
yeah there a sweet spot where people disagree and forcefully speak their mind and passionately defend their position and yet are still able to accept information from others and change their idea when they are wrong .
and i the analogy of how you polish rock .
you put hard thing in a hard container and spin it .
people bash against each other and out come a more refined product .
and to make a good team at neuralink weve tried to find people that are not afraid to defend their idea passionately and occasionally strongly disagree with people that they are working with and have the best idea come out on top .
it is not an easy balance again to refer back to the primate brain .
it is not something that is inherently built into the primate brain to say i passionately put all my chip on this position and now i am gon na walk away from it and admit you were .
part of our brain tell u that that is a power loss that is a loss of face a loss of standing in the community and now you are a zeta chump because your idea got trounced .
and you have to recognize that little voice in the back of your head is maladaptive and it is not helping the team win .
yeah you have to have the confidence to be able to walk away from an idea that you hold on to .
and if you do that often enough you are going to become the best in the world that you are thinking .
that that rapid iteration .
yeah youll at least be a member of a winning team .
ride the wave .
what did you learn ?
you mentioned there a lot of amazing neurosurgeon at usc .
what lesson about surgery and life have you learned from those folk ?
these folk were relentless in their pursuit of excellent neurosurgical technique decade over decade .
and i think we are recognized for that excellence .
it is especially marty wei steve giannata mike capuzzo they made huge contribution not only to surgical technique but they built training program that trained dozen or hundred of amazing neurosurgeon .
i wa lucky to be in their wake .
whats that you mentioned doing a surgery where the person is likely not to survive ?
doe that wear on you ?
it is especially challenging when you with all respect to our elder it doesnt hit much when you are taking care of an eighty year old and something wa going to get them pretty soon anyway .
and you lose a patient that .
and it wa part of the natural course of what is expected of them in the coming year regardless .
taking care of a father of two or three four young kid someone in their 30 that did not have it coming and they show up in your having their first seizure of their life and lo and behold theyve got a huge malignant inoperable or incurable brain tumor .
you can only do that .
i think a handful of time before it start eating away at your at your armor or a young mother that show up that ha a giant hemorrhage in her brain that shes not gon na survive from .
they bring her four year old daughter in to say goodbye one last time before they turn the ventilator off that they are not gon na survive .
the great henry marsh is an english neurosurgeon who said it best i think he say every neurosurgeon carry with them a private graveyard .
and i definitely feel that especially with young parent that kill me .
they had a lot more to give .
the loss of those people specifically ha a knockout .
it is a knockout effect thats going to make the world worse for people for a long time .
and it is hard to feel powerless in the face of that .
and thats where i think you have to be borderline evil to fight against a company neuralink or to constantly be taking potshot at u because what we are doing is to try to fix that stuff .
we are trying to give people option to reduce suffering .
we are trying to take the pain out of life that broken brain brings in .
and yeah this is our little way that we are fighting back against entropy i guess .
yeah the amount of suffering thats endured when some of the thing that we take for granted that our brain is able to do is taken away is immense .
and to be able to restore some of that functionality is a real gift .
yeah we are starting .
can you take me through the full procedure for implanting say the n1 chip in neuralink ?
yeah it is a simple simple straightforward procedure .
the human part of the surgery that i do is dead simple .
it is one of the most basic neurosurgery procedure imaginable .
and i think there evidence that some version of it ha been done for thousand of year .
that there are example i think from ancient egypt of healed or partially healed trefinations and from peru or ancient time in south america where these protosurgeons would drill hole in people skull presumably to let out the evil spirit but maybe to drain blood clot .
and there evidence of bone healing around the edge meaning the people at least survive some month after a procedure .
and what we are doing is that we are making a cut in the skin on the top of the head over the area of the brain that is the most potent representation of hand intention .
and if you are an expert concert pianist this part of your brain is lighting up the entire time you are playing .
we call it the hand knob .
the hand knob .
it is all the finger movement all of that is firing away .
yep there a little squiggle in the cortex there .
one of the fold in the brain is doubly folded on that spot .
and you can look at it on an mri and say thats the hand knob .
and then you do a functional test in a special mri called a functional mri fmri .
and this part of the brain light up when people even quadriplegic people whose brain are not connected to their finger movement anymore .
they imagine finger movement and this part of the brain still light up .
we can id that part of the brain in anyone who preparing to enter our trial and say that part of the brain we confirm is your hand intention area .
and ill make a little cut in the skin .
well flap the skin open opening the hood of a car only a lot smaller .
make a perfectly round one inch diameter hole in the skull .
remove that bit of skull .
open the lining of the brain the covering of the brain .
it is a little bag of water that the brain float in .
and then show that part of the brain to our robot .
and then this is where the robot shine .
and after the robot done with it part then the human come back in and put the implant into that hole in the skull and cover it up screwing it down to the skull and sewing the skin back together .
the whole thing is a few hour long it is extremely low risk compared to the average neurosurgery involving the brain that might say open up a deep part of the brain or manipulate blood vessel in the brain .
this opening on the surface of the brain with only cortical microinsertions carry significantly le risk than a lot of the tumor or aneurysm surgery that are routinely done .
cortical microinsertions that are via a robot and computer vision are designed to avoid the blood vessel .
i know you are a bit biased here but let compare human and machine .
what are human surgeon able to do and what are robot surgeon able to do at this stage of our human civilization development ?
yeah yeah thats a good question .
human are general purpose machine .
we are able to adapt to unusual situation we are able to change the plan on the fly .
when that blood vessel lay on the nerve it can cause intolerable horrific shooting pain that people describe being zapped with a cattle prod .
and the beautiful elegant surgery is to go move this blood vessel off the nerve .
the surgery team we went in there and started moving this blood vessel and then found that there wa a giant aneurysm on that blood vessel that wa not easily visible on the preop scan .
and the plan had to dynamically change and that the human surgeon had no problem with that we are trained for all those thing .
robot wouldnt do in that situation at least in their current incarnation fully robotic surgery the electrode insertion portion of the neuralink surgery .
it go according to a set plan .
and the human can interrupt the flow and change the plan but the robot can not change the plan midway through .
it operates according to how it wa programmed and how it wa asked to run .
it doe it job very precisely but not with a wide degree of latitude and how to react to changing condition .
there could be a very large number of way that you could be surprised a a surgeon .
when you enter a situation it could be subtle thing that you have to dynamically adjust to and robot are not good at that .
i think we are at the dawn of a new era with ai of the parameter for robot responsiveness to be dramatically broadened .
you can not look at a selfdriving car and say that it is operating under very narrow parameter .
if a chicken run across the road it wasnt necessarily programmed to deal with that specifically but a waymo or a selfdriving tesla would have no problem reacting to that appropriately .
and surgical robot are not there yet but give it time .
and then there could be a lot of semiautonomous possibility of maybe a robotic surgeon could say this situation is perfectly familiar or the situation is not familiar .
and in the not familiar case a human could take over .
but be very conservative and saying this for sure ha no issue no surprise and let the human deal with the surprise with the edge case all that .
thats one possibility .
you think eventually youll be out of the job .
you being neurosurgeon your job being neurosurgeon human there will not be many neurosurgeon left on this earth .
i am not worried about my job in the course of my professional life .
i think i would tell my kid not necessarily to go in this line of work depending on how thing look in twenty year .
it is fascinating because if i have a line of work i would say it is programming .
but then you realize these large language model come along and they are damn good at generating code .
overnight you could be surprised wow what is the contribution of the human ?
but then you start to think it doe seem that human have ability you said to deal with novel situation .
and in the case of programming it is the ability to come up with novel idea to solve problem .
it seems machine are not quite yet able to do that .
and when the stake are very high when it is life critical a it is in surgery especially neurosurgery then it start the stake are very high for a robot to replace a human .
but it is fascinating that in this case of neuralink there a humanrobot collaboration .
yeah yeah i do the part i can not do and it doe the part i can not do .
and we are friend .
i saw that there a lot of practice going on .
everything in neuralink is tested extremely rigorously .
but one of the thing i saw that there a proxy on which the surgery are performed .
this is both for the robot and for the human .
for everybody involved in the entire pipeline whats that practicing the surgery ?
there no analog to this in human surgery .
human surgery is this artisanal craft thats handed down directly from master to pupil over the generation .
the way you learn to be a surgeon on human is by doing surgery on human .
first you watch your professor do a bunch of surgery and then finally they put the trivial part of the surgery into your hand and then the more complex part .
and a your understanding of the point and the purpose of the surgery increase you get more responsibility in the perfect condition .
in neuralinks case the approach is a bit different .
we of course practiced a far a we could on animal .
we did hundred of animal surgery .
and when it came time to do the first human we had an amazing team of engineer build incredibly lifelike model .
one of the engineer fran romano in particular built a pulsating brain in a custom 3d printed skull that match exactly the patient anatomy including their face and scalp characteristic .
and when i wa able to practice that it is a close a it reasonably should get to being the real thing in all the detail including having a mannequin body attached to this custom head .
and when we were doing the practice surgery wed wheel that body into the ct scanner and take a mock ct scan and wheel it back in and conduct all the normal safety check verbally stop .
this patient we are confirming his identification is mannequin number blah blah blah .
and yeah we broke new ground on how extensively we practiced for this surgery .
there wa a historic moment a big milestone for neuralink in part for humanity with the first human getting a neuralink implant in january of this year .
take me through the surgery on noland .
what did it feel to be part of this ?
yeah we were lucky to have incredible partner at the baroneurologic institute .
they are i think the premier neurosurgical hospital in the world .
they made everything a easy a possible for the trial to get going and helped u immensely with their expertise on how to arrange the detail .
it wa a much more high pressure surgery in some way .
even though the outcome wasnt particularly in question in term of our participant safety the number of observer the number of people there conference room full of people watching live stream in the hospital rooting for this to go perfectly .
and that add pressure that is not typical for even the most intense production neurosurgery say removing a tumor or placing deep brain stimulation electrode and it had never been done on a human before .
there were unknown unknown .
unfortunately everything went and that surgery is one of the smoothest outcome we could have imagined .
you are extremely quarterback in the super bowl situation .
extremely nervous extremely .
i wa very pleased when it went and then when it wa over looking forward to number two .
yeah even with all that practice all of that have never been in a situation thats high stake in term of people watching .
and we should also probably mention given how the medium work a lot of people maybe in a dark way hoping it doesnt go .
i think wealth is easy to hate or envy or whatever .
and i think there a whole industry around driving click and bad news is great for click .
and any way to take an event and turn it into bad news is gon na be good for click .
it suck because i think it put pressure on people .
it discourages people from trying to solve hard problem because to solve hard problem you have to go into the unknown .
you have to do thing that havent been done before and you have to take risk .
calculated risk you have to do all safety precaution but risk never the le .
and i wish there would be more celebration of that of the risk taking versus people waiting on the sideline waiting for failure and then pointing out the failure yeah it suck .
but in this case it is great that everything went flawlessly but it is unnecessary pressure i would say .
now that there is a human with literal skin in the game there a participant whose wellbeing ride on this doing you have to be a pretty bad person to be rooting for that to go wrong .
and hopefully people look in the mirror and realize that at some point .
did you get to front row seat watch the robot work what ?
you get to see the whole thing ?
yeah because an md need to be in charge of all of the medical decisionmaking throughout the process .
i unscrubbed from the surgery after exposing the brain and presenting it to the robot and placed the target on the robot software interface that tell the robot where it is going to insert each thread that wa done with my hand on the mouse for whatever thats worth .
you were the one placing the target ?
it the robot with a computer vision provides a bunch of candidate and you finalize the decision. . the software engineer are amazing on this team .
and they provided an interface where you can essentially use a lasso tool and select a prime area of brain real estate and it will automatically avoid the blood vessel in that region and automatically place a bunch of target .
that allows the human robot operator to select good area of brain and make dense application of target in those region .
the region we think are gon na have the most high fidelity representation of finger movement and arm movement intention .
ive seen image of this .
for me with ocds for some reason are pleasant .
i think there a subreddit called oddly satisfying .
love that subreddit .
it is oddly satisfying to see the different target site avoiding the blood vessel and also maximizing the usefulness of those location for the signal .
it is .
a a person who ha a visceral reaction to the brain bleeding i can tell you it is .
it is extremely satisfying watching the electrode themselves go into the brain and not cause bleeding .
yeah you said the feeling wa of relief when everything went perfectly .
how deep in the brain can you currently go and eventually go ?
let say on the neural link side it seems the deeper you go in the brain the more challenging it becomes .
talking broadly about neurosurgery we can get anywhere .
it is routine for me to put deep brain stimulating electrode near the very bottom of the brain entering from the top and passing about a two millimeter wire all the way into the bottom of the brain .
and thats not revolutionary .
a lot of people do that .
and we can do that with very high precision .
i use a robot from globus to do that surgery .
several time a month .
it is pretty routine .
what are your eye in that situation ?
what are you seeing ?
what technology can you use to visualize where you are to light your way ?
yeah it is a cool process on the software side .
you take a preoperative mri thats extremely high resolution data of the entire brain .
you put the patient to sleep put their head in a frame that hold the skull very rigidly and then you take a ct scan of their head while they are asleep with that frame on and then merge the mri and the ct in software .
you have a plan based on the mri where you can see these nucleus deep in the brain .
you can not see them on ct but if you trust the merging of the two image then you indirectly know on the ct where that is and therefore indirectly know where in reference to the titanium frame screwed to their head those target are .
and this is 60 technology to manually compute trajectory given the entry point and target and dial in some goofy looking titanium actuator with manual actuator with little tick mark on them .
the modern version of that is to use a robot a little cuckoo arm you might see it building car at the tesla factory .
you end up with the electrode very very precisely placed far from the skull surface .
now thats standard technology thats already been out in the world for a while .
neuralink now is focused entirely on cortical target surface target because there no trivial way to get say hundred of wire deep inside the brain without doing a lot of damage .
your question what do ?
i see an mri on a screen .
i can not see everything that that db electrode is passing through on it way to that deep target .
and it is accepted with this approach that there gon na be about one in a hundred patient who have a bleed somewhere in the brain a a result of passing that wire blindly into the deep part of the brain .
thats not an acceptable safety profile for neuralink .
we start from the position that we want this to be dramatically maybe two or three order of magnitude safer than that .
safe enough that you or i without a profound medical problem might on our lunch break someday say yeah sure ill get that .
id be meaning to upgrade to the latest version .
and the safety constraint given that are high .
and we havent settled on a final solution for arbitrarily approaching deep target in the brain .
it is interesting because you have to avoid blood vessel somehow .
you have to maybe there creative way of doing the same thing mapping out high resolution geometry of blood vessel .
and then you can go in blind but how do you map out that in a way thats super stable ?
it is a lot of interesting challenge there ?
but there a lot to do on the surface .
weve got vision on the surface .
we have made a huge amount of progress sewing electrode into the spinal cord a a potential workaround for a spinal cord injury that would allow a brainmounted implant to translate motor intention to a spinemounted implant that can affect muscle contraction in previously paralyzed arm and leg .
thats incredible .
the effort there is to try to bridge the brain to the spinal cord to the peripheral nerve .
how hard is that to do ?
we have that working in very crude form in animal .
thats amazing .
yeah weve done it .
similar to with nolan where he able to digitally move the cursor here you are doing the same communication but with the actual effector that you have .
thats fascinating .
we have anesthetized animal doing grasp and moving their leg in a walking pattern .
again early day but the future is bright for this thing .
and people with paralysis should look forward to that bright future .
they are gon na have option .
yeah and there a lot of intermediate or extra option where you take an optimist robot the arm and to be able to control the arm .
the finger the hand the arm is a prosthetic .
yeah that go hand in hand .
although i did not quite understand until thinking about it deeply and doing more research about neuralink how much you can do on the digital side .
there digital telepathy .
i did not quite understand that you can map the intention a you described in the hand knob area .
you can map the intention .
imagine it think about it .
that intention can be mapped to actual action in the digital world .
and now more and more much can be done in the digital world that it can reconnect you to the outside world .
it can allow you to have freedom have independence if you are a quadriplegic .
thats powerful .
you can go far with that .
yeah our first participant is he incredible .
he breaking world record left and .
and he having fun with it it is great .
going back to the surgery your whole journey you mentioned to me offline you have surgery on monday .
you are you are doing surgery all the time .
yeah maybe the ridiculous question .
what doe it take to get good at surgery ?
practice repetition .
same with anything else .
there a million way of people saying the same thing and selling book saying it but you call it tenzero hour .
you call it spend some chunk of your life some percentage of your life focusing on this obsessing about getting better at it .
repetition humility recognizing that you are not perfect at any stage along the way recognizing youve got improvement to make in your technique being open to feedback and coaching from people with a different perspective on how to do it .
and then the constant will to do better that fortunately if you are not a sociopath i think your patient bring that with them to the office visit every day .
they force you to wan na do better all the time .
yeah to step up .
it is a real human being a real human being that you can help .
every surgery even if it is the same exact surgery is there a lot of variability between that surgery and a different person ?
a good example for u is the angle of the skull relative to the normal plane of the body axis of the skull overhand knob is pretty wide variation .
some people have flat skull and some people have steeply angled skull over that area and that ha consequence for how their head can be fixed in the frame that we use and how the robot ha to approach the skull .
and yeah people body are built a differently a the people walking down the street a much variability in body shape and size a there .
we see in brain anatomy and skull anatomy there are some people who weve had to exclude from our trial for having skull that are too thick or too thin or scalp thats too thick or too thin .
i think we have the middle ninety seven or of people but you can not account for all human anatomy variability .
how much mushiness and mess is there ?
cause i taking biology class the diagram are always clean and crisp neuroscience the picture of neuron are always nice .
but whenever i look at picture of real brain they are all i do not know whats going on .
how much are biological system in reality ?
how hard is it to figure out whats going on ?
occasionally when you are first starting to do this and you open the skull it doesnt match what you thought you were gon na see based on the mri .
and with more experience you learn to peel back that layer of blood vessel and see the underlying pattern of wrinkle in the brain and use that a a landmark for where you are .
the wrinkle are a landmark ?
i wa describing hand knob earlier thats a pattern of the wrinkle in the brain .
it is this greek letter omega shaped area of the brain .
you could recognize the hand knob area if i show you a thousand brain and give you one minute with each youd be yep thats that .
and there is some uniqueness to that area of the brain in term of the geometry the topology of the thing .
where is it about in the ... you have this strip of brain running down the top called the primary motor area .
and i am sure youve seen this picture of the homunculus laid over the surface of the brain the weird little guy with huge lip and giant hand .
that guy lay with his leg up at the top of the brain and face the arm area farther down and then some mouth lip tongue area farther down .
and the hand is in there .
and then the area that control speech at least on the left side of the brain in most people are below that .
and any muscle that you voluntarily move in your body the vast majority of that reference that strip or those intention come from that strip of brain and the wrinkle for hand knob is in the middle of that .
and vision is back here .
also close to the surface .
and this get to your question about how deep can you get to do vision .
we can not do the surface of the brain we have to be able to go in not a deep a wed have to go for db but maybe a centimeter deeper than we are used to for hand insertion .
and thats work in progress .
thats a new set of challenge to overcome .
by the way you mentioned the utah rate and i saw a picture of that and that thing look terrifying .
that nail .
it is because it is rigid .
and then if you look at the thread they are flexible .
what can you say thats interesting to you about the flexible that approach of the flexible thread to deliver the electrode next to the neuron ?
yeah the goal there come from experience .
we stand on the shoulder of people that made utah ray and used utah ray for decade before we ever even came along .
neuralink arose partly this approach to technology arose out of a need recognized after utah ray would fail routinely because the rigid electrode those spike that are hammered using an air hammer into the brain .
those spike generate a bad immune response that encapsulates the electrode spike in scar tissue essentially .
and one of the project that wa being worked on in the anderson lab at caltech when i got there wa to see if you could use chemotherapy to prevent the formation of scar .
thing are pretty bad when you are jamming a bed of nail into the brain and then treating that with chemotherapy to try to prevent scar tissue .
it is maybe weve gotten off track here guy .
maybe there a fundamental redesign necessary .
and neuralinks approach of using highly flexible tiny electrode avoids a lot of the bleeding avoids a lot of the immune response that end up happening when rigid electrode are pounded into the brain .
and what we see is our electrode longevity and functionality and the health of the brain tissue immediately surrounding the electrode is excellent .
it go on for year now in our animal model .
what do most people not understand about the biology of the brain ?
well mention the vasculature .
thats interesting .
i think the most interesting maybe underappreciated fact is that it doe control almost everything .
out of a blue example imagine you want a lever on fertility .
you want to be able to turn fertility on and off .
there are legitimate target in the brain itself to modulate fertility say blood pressure .
you want to modulate blood pressure .
there are legitimate target in the brain for doing that .
thing that are not immediately obvious a brain problem are potentially solvable in the brain .
and i think it is an underexplored area for primary treatment of all the thing that bother people .
thats a fascinating way to look at it .
there a lot of condition we might think have nothing to do with the brain but they might be symptom of something that started in the brain .
the actual source of the problem the primary source is something in the brain .
not always .
kidney disease is real but there are lever you can pull in the brain that affect all of these system .
there knob .
onoff switch and knob in the brain from which this all originates .
would you have a neural link chip implanted in your brain ?
i think use case now is use a mouse .
i can already do that .
and there no value proposition on safety ground alone .
ill do it tomorrow .
you say the use case of the mouse .
is it after researching all this and part of it is watching nolan have much fun ?
if you can get that bit per second look high with the mouse being able to interact .
if you think about it the way on the smartphone the way you swipe that wa transformational how we interact with the thing .
it is subtle .
you do not realize it but to be able to touch a phone and to scroll with your finger thats that changed everything .
people were sure you need a keyboard to type .
there a lot of hci aspect to that that changed how we interact with computer .
there could be a certain rate of speed with the mouse that would change everything .
you might be able to click around a screen extremely fast .
i can see myself getting the neural link for much more rapid interaction with the digital device .
i think recording speech intention from the brain might change thing a . the value proposition for the average person .
a keyboard is a pretty clunky human interface requires a lot of training .
it is highly variable in the maximum performance that the average person can achieve .
i think taking that out of the equation and having a natural word to computer interface might change thing for a lot of people .
itd be hilarious if that is the reason people do it .
even if you have speech to text thats extremely accurate .
it currently is not but it is say youve gotten super accurate .
itd be hilarious if people went for neural link you avoid the embarrassing aspect of speaking looking a douchebag speaking to your phone in public which is a real constraint .
with a bone conducting case that can be an invisible headphone say and the ability to think word into software and have it respond to you that start to sound embedded superintelligence .
if you can silently ask for the wikipedia article on any subject and have it read to you without any observable change happening in the outside world for one thing standardized testing is obsolete .
if it is done on the ux side it could change i do not know if it transforms society but it can create a shift in the way we interact with digital device in the way that a smartphone did .
now having to look into the safety of everything involved i would try it .
it doesnt have to go to some incredible thing where you have it connects your vision or to some other it connects all over your brain .
that could be connecting to the hand knob .
you might have a lot of interesting interaction humancomputer interaction possibility .
thats interesting .
the technology on the academic side is progressing at light speed here .
i think there wa a amazing paper out of uc davis at sergei staviskys lab that made an initial solve of speech decode .
it wa something one hundred and twenty fivezero word that they were getting with very high accuracy which is you are thinking the word ?
thinking the word and you are able to get it .
you have to have the intention of speaking it. . do that inner voice .
it is amazing to me that you can do the intention to signal mapping .
all you have to do is imagine yourself doing it .
and if you get the feedback that it worked you can get good at that .
your brain will first of all adjust and you develop it any other skill .
touch typing you develop it in that same way .
to me it is fascinating to be able to even to play with that .
honestly i would get a new link to be able to play with that .
to play with the capacity the capability of my mind to learn this skill .
it is learning the skill of typing and learning the skill of moving a mouse .
it is another skill of moving the mouse not with my physical body but with my mind .
i can not wait to see what people do with it .
i feel we are caveman now .
we are banging rock with a stick and thinking that we are making music .
at some point when these are more widespread there going to be the equivalent of a piano that someone can make art with their brain in a way that we did not even anticipate .
i am looking forward to it .
give it to a teenager .
anytime i think i am good at something ill always go to i do not know even with the bit per second and playing a video game .
you realize you give it to a teenager .
you are giving your link to a teenager the large number of them .
the stuff that get good at stuff .
they are going to get hundred of bit per second .
even with the current technology .
because it is also addicting how the number go up aspect of it of improving and training .
because it is almost a skill .
and plus there a software on the other end that adapts to you .
and especially if the adapting procedure algorithm becomes better and better and better you are learning together .
we are scratching the surface on that now .
there much more to do .
on the complete other side of it you have an rfid chip implanted in you .
this is a little subtle thing .
it is a passive device that you use for unlocking a safe with top secret .
what is it ?
what do you use it for ?
whats the story behind it ?
i am not the first one .
there this whole community of weirdo bio hacker that have done this stuff .
and i think one of the early use case wa storing private crypto wallet key and whatever .
i dabbled in that a bit and had some fun with it .
you have some bitcoin implanted in your body somewhere you can not tell where .
it wa the modern day equivalent of finding change in the sofa cushion .
after i put some orphan crypto on there that i thought wa worthless and forgot about it for a few year went back and found that some community of people loved it and had propped up the value of it and it had gone up fifty fold .
there wa a lot of change in those cushion .
thats hilarious .
but the primary use case is mostly a a tech demonstrator .
it ha my business card on it .
you can scan that and by touching it to your phone it open the front door to my house whatever simple stuff .
it is a cool step .
it is a cool leap to implant something in your body .
it ha perhaps thats it is a similar leap to in your link because for a lot of people that notion of putting something inside your body something electronic inside a biological system is a big leap .
we have a a mysticism around the barrier of our skin .
we are completely fine with knee replacement hip replacement dental implant .
but there a mysticism still around the inviolable barrier that the skull represents .
and i think that need to be treated any other pragmatic barrier .
the question is not how incredible is it to open the skull ?
the question is what benefit can we provide ?
from all the surgery youve done from everything you understand in the brain how much doe neuroplasticity come into play ?
how adaptable is the brain ?
for example even in the case of healing from surgery or adapting to the postsurgery situation .
the answer that is sad for me and other people of my demographic is that plasticity decrease with age healing decrease with age .
i have too much gray hair to be optimistic about that .
there are theoretical way to increase plasticity using electrical stimulation nothing that is proven out a a robust enough mechanism to offer widely to people .
but yeah i think there cause for optimism that we might find something useful in term of say an implanted electrode that improves learning .
certainly there been some amazing work recently from nicholas schiff jonathan baker and others who have a cohort of patient with moderate traumatic brain injury who have had electrode placed in the deep nucleus in the brain called the centromedia nucleus or near centromedia nucleus .
and when they apply small amount of electricity to that part of the brain it is almost electronic caffeine .
they are able to improve people attention and focus .
they are able to improve how people can perform a task .
i think in one case someone who wa unable to work after the device wa turned on they were able to get a job .
and thats one of the holy grail for me with neuralink and other technology this is from a purely utilitarian standpoint .
can we make people able to take care of themselves and their family economically again ?
can we make it someone who fully dependent and even maybe requires a lot of caregiver resource can we put them in a position to be fully independent taking care of themselves giving back to their community ?
i think thats a very compelling proposition and what motivates a lot of what i do and what a lot of the people at neuralink are working for .
it is a cool possibility that if you put a neuralink in there that the brain adapts the other part of the brain adapts too .
and it integrates it .
the capacity of the brain to do that is interesting probably unknown to the degree to which it can do that .
but you are now connecting an external thing to it especially once it is doing stimulation .
the biological brain and the electronic brain outside of it working together the possibility they are interesting .
it is still unknown but interesting .
it feel the brain is good at adapting to whatever .
but of course it is a system that by itself is already everything serf a purpose .
and you do not want to mess with it too much .
it is eliminating a specie from an ecology .
you do not know what the delicate interconnection and dependency are .
the brain is certainly a delicate complex beast .
and we do not know every potential downstream consequence of a single change that we make .
do yourself doing we mentioned p1 surgery of p2 p3 p4 p5 more and more and more human ?
i think it is a certain brittleness or a failure on the company side if we need me to do all the surgery .
i think something that i would very much to work towards is a process that is simple and robust on the surgery side that anyone could do it .
we want to get away from requiring intense expertise or intense experience to have this successfully done and make it a simple and translatable a possible .
i would love it if every neurosurgeon on the planet had no problem doing this .
i think we are probably far from a regulatory environment that would allow people that are not neurosurgeon to do this but not impossible .
all ill sign up for that .
did you ever anthropomorphize the robot r1 ?
do it a a friend thats working together with you ?
to a certain degree it is ... or an enemy who going to take the job .
to a certain degree it is a complex relationship .
all the good relationship are .
it is funny when in the middle of the surgery there a part of it where i stand shoulder to shoulder with the robot .
if you are in the room reading the body language it is my brotherinarms that are working together on the same problem .
yeah i am not threatened by it .
keep telling yourself that .
how have all the surgery that youve done over the year and the people youve helped and the high stake that youve mentioned how ha that changed your understanding of life and death ?
it give you a very visceral sense and this may sound trite but it give you a very visceral sense that death is inevitable .
on one hand you are a a neurosurgeon you are deeply involved in these hard to fathom tragedy young parent dying leaving a fouryearold behind to say .
and on the other hand it take the sting out of it a bit because how mindnumbingly universal death is .
there zero chance that i am going to avoid it .
i know technooptimists now and longevity buff now would disagree on that zero.zero estimate but i do not see any chance that our generation is going to avoid it .
entropy is a powerful force and we are very ornate delicate brittle dna machine that are not up to the cosmic ray bombardment that we are subjected to .
on the one hand every human that ha ever lived died or will die .
on the other hand it is one of the hardest thing to imagine inflicting on anyone that you love is having them gone .
i am sure youve had friend that are not living anymore and it is hard to even think about them .
and i wish i had arrived at the point of nirvana where death doesnt have a sting .
i am not worried about it but i can at least say that i am comfortable with the certainty of it if not having found out how to take the tragedy out of it when i think about my kid .
either not having me or me not having them or my wife .
maybe ive come to accept the intellectual certainty of it but it may be the pain that come with losing the people you love .
i do not think ive come to understand the existential aspect of it that this is going to end .
and i do not mean in some trite way it certainly feel it is not going to end .
you live life it is not going to end .
and the fact that this light thats shining this consciousness is going to no longer be at one moment maybe today .
it feel me when i am able to load all that in with ernest beckers terror .
it is a real fear .
i think people are not always honest with how terrifying it is .
i think the more you are able to think through it the more terrifying it is .
it is not such a simple thing .
thats the way life is .
if you can load that in it is hard .
but i think thats why the stoic did it because it help you get your shit together and be every single moment you are alive is beautiful .
and it is terrifying that it is going to end .
it is almost you are shivering in the cold a child helpless this feeling .
and then it make you when you have warmth when you have the safety when you have the love to appreciate it .
i feel sometimes in your position when you mention armor to see death it might make you not be able to see that the finiteness of life .
because if you kept looking at that it might break you .
it is good to know that you are still struggling with that .
there the neurosurgeon and then there a human .
and the human is still able to struggle with that and feel the fear of that and the pain of that .
yeah it definitely make you ask the question of how many of these can and not say i can not do this anymore .
i think it give you an opportunity to appreciate that you are alive today .
and ive got three kid and an amazing wife .
thing are good .
i get to help on a project that i think matter .
i think it move u forward .
i am a very lucky person .
it is the early step of a potentially gigantic leap for humanity .
it is a interesting one .
and it is cool because you read about all the stuff in history where it is the early day .
ive been reading before going to the amazon i would read about explorer that would go and explore even the amazon jungle for the first time .
it is those are the early step .
or early step into space .
early step in any discipline in physic and mathematics .
and thats cool because this is on the grand scale these are the early step into diving deep into the human brain .
not observing the brain but youll be able to interact with the human brain .
it is going to help a lot of people but it also might help u understand what the hell going on in there .
i think ultimately we want to give people more lever that they can pull .
you want to give people option .
if you can give someone a dial that they can turn on how happy they are i think that make people uncomfortable .
but now talk about major depressive disorder talk about people that are committing suicide at an alarming rate in this country .
try to justify that queasiness in that light .
you can give people a knob to take away suicidal ideation suicidal intention .
i would give them that knob .
i do not know how you justify not doing that .
you can think about all the suffering thats going on in the world .
every single human being thats suffering now itll be a glowing red dot .
the more suffering the more it is glowing and you see the map of human suffering .
and any technology that allows you to dim that light of suffering on a grand scale is pretty exciting because there a lot of people suffering and most of them suffer quietly .
we look away too often and we should remember those are suffering because once again most of them are suffering quietly .
and on a grander scale the fabric of society people have a lot of complaint about how our social fabric is working or not working how our politics is working or not working .
those thing are made of neurochemistry too in aggregate .
i do not think that lead to a functional society .
if you had option for people to moderate that maladaptive behavior there could be huge benefit to society .
maybe we could all work together a little more harmoniously toward useful end .
there a sweet spot you mentioned .
you do not want to completely remove all the dark side of human nature because those are somehow necessary to make the whole thing work but there a sweet spot .
you got to suffer a little not much that you lose hope .
when you all the surgery youve done have you seen consciousness in there ever ?
wa it a glowing light ?
i have this sense that i never found it never removed it a dementor in harry potter .
i have this sense that consciousness is a lot le magical than our instinct want to claim it is .
it seems to me a useful analog for thinking about what consciousness is in the brain is that we have a good intuitive understanding of what it mean to say touch your skin and know whats being touched .
i think consciousness is that level of sensory mapping applied to the thought process in the brain itself .
what i am saying is consciousness is the sensation of some part of your brain being active .
you feel the part of your brain that think of red thing or winged creature or the taste of coffee .
you feel those part of your brain being active the way that i am feeling my palm being touched .
that sensory system that feel the brain working is consciousness .
that is brilliant .
it is the same way .
it is the sensation of touch when you are touching a thing .
consciousness is the sensation of you feeling your brain working your brain thinking your brain perceiving .
which is not a warping of spacetime or some quantum field effect .
it is nothing magical .
people always want to ascribe to consciousness something truly different .
there this awesome long history of people looking at whatever the latest discovery in physic is to explain consciousness because it is the most magical the most out there thing that you can think of .
people always want to do that with consciousness .
i do not think thats necessary .
it is a very useful and gratifying way of feeling your brain work .
and a we said it is one heck of a brain .
everything we see around u everything we love everything thats beautiful came from brain these .
it is all electrical activity happening inside your skull .
and i for one am grateful that there people you that are exploring all the way that it work and all the way it can be made better .
thanks lex .
thank you much for talking today .
thanks for listening to this conversation with matthew mcdougal .
and now dear friend here bliss chapman brain interface software lead at neuralink .
you told me that youve met hundred of people with spinal cord injury or with al and that your motivation for helping at neuralink is grounded and wanting to help them .
can you describe this motivation ?
first a thank you to all the people ive got a chance to speak with for sharing their story with me .
i do not think there any world in which i can share their story a powerful a way a they can .
but i think to summarize at a very high level what i hear over and over again is that people with al or severe spinal cord injury in a place where they can not move physically anymore at the end of the day are looking for independence .
and that can mean different thing for different people .
for some folk it can mean the ability to be able to communicate again independently without needing to wear something on their face without needing a caretaker to be able to put something in their mouth .
and for some folk it is a simple a being able to respond to the kid in time before they run away or get interested in something else .
and these are deeply personal and very human problem .
and what strike me again and again when talking with these folk is that this is an engineering problem .
this is a problem that with the resource with the team we can make a lot of progress on .
and at the end of the day i think thats a deeply inspiring message and something that make me excited to get up every day .
it is both an engineering problem in term of a bci for example that can give them capability where they can interact with the world .
but also on the other side it is an engineering problem for the rest of the world to make it more accessible for people living with quadriplegia .
and i see ill take a broad view lens on this for a second .
i think i am very in favor of anyone working in this problem space .
beyond bci i am happy and excited and willing to support any way i can folk working on eye tracking system working on speech to text system working on head tracker or mouse stick or quad stick .
i havent met many engineer and folk in the community that do exactly those thing .
and i think for the people we are trying to help it doesnt matter what the complexity of the solution is a long a the problem is solved .
and i want to emphasize that there can be many solution out there that can help with these problem .
and bci is one of a collection of such solution .
bci in particular i think offer several advantage here .
and i think the folk that recognize this immediately are usually the people who have spinal cord injury or some form of paralysis .
usually you do not have to explain to them why this might be something that could be helpful .
it is usually pretty selfevident .
but for the rest of u folk that do not live with severe spinal cord injury or who do not know somebody with al it is not often obvious why you would want a brain implant to be able to connect and navigate a computer .
and it is surprisingly nuanced .
and to the degree that ive learned a huge amount working with noland in the first neuriline clinical trial and understanding from him in his word why this device is impactful for him .
and it is a nuanced topic .
it can be the case that even if you can achieve the same thing for example with a mouse stick when navigating a computer he doesnt have access to that mouse stick every single minute of the day .
he only ha access when someone is available to put it in front of him .
and bci can offer a level of independence and autonomy that if it wasnt physically part of your body it would be hard to achieve in any other way .
there a lot of fascinating aspect to what it take to get noland to be able to control a cursor on the screen with his mind .
you texted me something that i love .
you said i wa part of the team that interviewed and selected p1 .
i wa in the operating room during the first human surgery monitoring live signal coming out of the brain .
i work with the user every day to develop new ux paradigm decoding strategy .
and i wa part of the team that figured out how to recover useful bci to new world record level when the signal quality degraded .
well talk about i think every aspect of that but zooming out what wa it to be part of that part of that team and part of that historic i would say historic first ?
yeah i think for me this is something ive been excited about for close to ten year now .
and to be able to be even some small part of making it a reality is extremely exciting .
a couple maybe special moment during that whole process that ill never truly forget .
one of them is entering the actual surgery .
at that point in time i know noland quite .
i know his family .
and i think the initial reaction when noland is rolled into the operating room is shit reaction .
but at that point most of memory kick in and you go into you let your body do all the talking .
and i have the lucky job in that particular procedure to be in charge of monitoring the implant .
my job is to sit there to look at the signal coming off the implant to look at the live brain data streaming off the device a thread are being inserted into the brain .
and to observe and make sure that nothing is going wrong or that there no red flag or fault condition that we need to go and investigate or pause the surgery to debug .
and because i had that spectator view of the surgery i had a slightly removed perspective and i think most folk in the room i got to sit there and think to myself wow that brain is moving a lot .
when you look into the side of the craniectomy that we stick the thread in one thing that most people do not realize is the brain move .
the brain move a lot when you breathe when your heart beat and you can see it visibly .
thats something that i think wa a surprise to me and very very exciting to be able to see someone brain who you physically know and have talked with that length pulsing and moving inside their skull .
and they used that brain to talk to you previously .
and now it is there moving .
i did not realize that in term of the thread sending the neural link implant is active during surgery .
and one thread at a time you are able to start seeing the signal .
thats part of the way you test that the thing is working .
yeah in the operating room after we finished all the thread insertion i started collecting whats called broadband data .
broadband is the most raw form of signal you can collect from a neural link electrode .
it is essentially a measurement of the local field potential or the voltage essentially measured by that electrode .
and we have a certain mode in our application that allows u to visualize where detected spike are .
it visualizes where in the broadband signal in it very very raw form of the data a neuron is spiking .
and one of the these moment that ill never forget a part of this whole clinical trial is seeing live in the operating room while he still under anesthesia beautiful spike being shown in the application streaming live to a device i am holding in my hand .
this is no signal processing the raw data and then the signal processing on top of it you are seeing the spike detected. . yeah .
and thats the ux too .
because that look beautiful a . during that procedure there wa a lot of camera men in the room .
they also were curious and wanted to see there several neurosurgeon in the room who are all excited to see robot taking their job .
and they are all crowded around and small little iphone watching this live brain data stream out of his brain .
what wa that seeing the robot do some of the surgery .
the computer vision aspect where it detects all the spot that avoid the blood vessel and then obviously with human supervision then doing the high precision connection of the thread to the brain .
yeah thats a good question .
my answer is going to be pretty lame here but it wa boring .
ive seen it many time .
thats exactly how you want surgery to be .
you want it to be boring .
because ive seen it many time .
ive seen the robot do this surgery hundred of time .
and it wa one more time .
all the practice surgery and proxy .
and this is another day .
what about when nolan woke up ?
do you remember a moment where he wa able to move the cursor not move the cursor but get signal from the brain such that it wa able to show that there a connection ?
we are quite excited to move a quickly a we can .
and nolan wa excited to get started .
he wanted to get started the day of surgery but we waited till the next morning very patiently .
and the next morning in the icu where he wa recovering he wanted to get started and start to understand what signal we can measure from his brain .
and maybe for folk who are not familiar with the neuralink system we implant the neuralink system or the neuralink implant in the motor cortex .
the motor cortex is responsible for representing thing motor intent .
if you imagine closing and opening your hand that signal representation would be present in the motor cortex .
if you imagine moving your arm back and forth or wiggling a pinky this signal can be present in the motor cortex .
one of the way we start to map out what signal do we have access to in any particular individual brain is through this task called body mapping .
and body mapping is where you essentially present a visual to the user and you say hey imagine doing this .
and the visual is a 3d hand opening closing or index finger modulating up and down .
and you ask the user to imagine that .
and obviously you can not see them do this because they are paralyzed .
you can not see them move their arm .
but while they do this task you can record neural activity .
and you can offline model and check can i predict or can i detect the modulation corresponding with those different action ?
and we did that task and we realized hey there some modulation associated with some of his hand motion which wa the first indication that we can potentially use that modulation to do useful thing in the world .
and he started playing with it the first time we showed him it .
and we took the same live view of his brain activity and put it in front of him .
and we said hey you tell u whats going on .
we are not you you are able to imagine different thing .
and we know that it is modulating some of these neuron .
you figure out for u what that is representing .
and he played with it for a bit .
he played for a bit longer .
and he said when i move this finger i see this particular neuron start to fire more .
and i said prove it do it again .
and he said three two one boom .
and the minute he moved you can see instantaneously this neuron is firing single neuron i can tell you the exact channel number if you are interested it is stuck in my brain now forever .
but that single channel firing wa a beautiful indication that it wa behaviorally modulated neural activity that could then be used for downstream task decoding a computer cursor .
and when you say single channel is that associated with a single electrode ?
yeah channel electrode are interchangeable .
and there a one thousand and twenty four of those .
one thousand and twenty four .
it is incredible that that work .
that when i wa learning about all this and loading it in it wa blowing my mind that the intention you can visualize yourself moving the finger that can turn into a signal .
and the fact that you can then skip that step and visualize the cursor moving or have the intention of the cursor moving in that leading to a signal that can then be used to move the cursor .
there are many exciting thing there to learn about the brain about the way the brain work .
the very fact of their existing signal that can be used a powerful .
but it feel thats the beginning of figuring out how that signal could be used effectively .
i should also there many fascinating detail here but you mentioned the body mapping step at least in the version i saw that nolan wa showing off .
there a super nice interface a graphical interface .
it felt i wa in the future because it i guess it visualizes you moving the hand .
and there a very a sexy polished interface that say hello .
i do not know if there a voice component but it felt when you wake up in a nice video game and this is a tutorial at the beginning of that video game this is what you are supposed to do .
it is cool .
no the future should feel the future .
but it is not easy to pull that off .
it need to be simple but not too simple .
and i think the ux design component here is underrated for pci development in general .
there a whole interaction effect between the way in which you visualize an instruction to the user and the kind of signal you can get back .
and that quality of your behavioral alignment to the neural signal is a function of how good you are at expressing to the user what you want them to do .
and yeah we spend a lot of time thinking about the ux of how we build our application of how the decoder function the control surface it provides to the user all these little detail matter a lot .
maybe itd be nice to get into a little bit more detail of what the signal look and what the decoding look .
there a n1 implant that ha we mentioned one thousand and twenty four electrode .
and thats collecting raw data raw signal .
what doe that signal look ?
and what are the different step along the way before it is transmitted ?
and what is transmitted and all that stuff ?
this is going to be a fun one .
maybe before diving into what we do it is worth understanding what we are trying to measure because that dictate a lot of the requirement for the system that we build .
and what we are trying to measure is individual neuron producing action potential .
and action potential is you can think of it a little electrical impulse that you can detect if you are close enough .
and by being close enough within let say one hundred micron of that cell .
and one hundred micron is a very very tiny distance .
and the number of neuron that you can pick up with any given electrode is a small radius around that electrode .
and the other thing worth understanding about the underlying biology here is that when neuron produce an action potential the width of that action potential is about one millisecond .
from the start of the spike to the end of the spike that whole width of that characteristic feature of a neuron firing is one millisecond wide .
and if you want to detect that an individual spike is occurring or not you need to sample that signal or sample the local field potential nearby that neuron much more frequently than once a millisecond .
you need to sample many many time per millisecond to be able to detect that this is the characteristic waveform of a neuron producing an action potential .
and we sample across all one thousand and twenty four electrode about twentyzero time a second .
twentyzero time a second mean we are already given one millisecond window .
we have about twenty sample that tell u what that exact shape of that action potential look .
and once weve sampled at super high rate the underlying electrical field nearby these cell we can process that signal into where do we detect a spike or where do we not ?
a binary signal one or zero do we detect a spike in this one millisecond or not ?
and we do that because the actual information carrying subspace of neural activity is when are spike occurring ?
essentially everything that we care about for decoding can be captured or represented in the frequency characteristic of spike train meaning how often are spike firing in any given window of time .
and that allows u to do a crazy amount of compression from this very rich high density signal to something thats much much more sparse and compressible that can be sent out over a wireless radio a bluetooth communication for example .
quick tangent here .
there a local neighborhood of neuron nearby .
how difficult doe it to isolate from where the spike came from ?
there a whole field of academic neuroscience work on exactly this problem of giving a single electrode or giving a set of electrode measuring a set of neuron .
how can you sort spike sort which spike are coming from what neuron ?
and this is a problem thats pursued in academic work because you care about it for understanding whats going on in the underlying neuroscience of the brain .
if you care about understanding how the brain are presenting information how thats evolving through time then thats a very very important question to understand .
for the engineering side of thing at least at the current scale if the number of neuron per electrode is relatively small you can get away with ignoring that problem completely .
you can think of it a random projection of neuron to electrode .
and there may be in some case more than one neuron per electrode .
but if that number is small enough those signal can be thought of a a union of the two .
and for many application thats a reasonable trade off to make and can simplify the problem a lot .
and a you scale out channel count the relevance of distinguishing individual neuron becomes le important because you have more overall signal and you can start to rely on correlation or covariant structure in the data to help understand when that channel is firing what doe that represent ?
because that when that channel is firing in concert with these other fifty channel that mean move left .
but when that same channel is firing with concert with these other ten channel that mean move .
you have to do this spike detection on board .
and you have to do that super efficiently .
fast and not use too much power because you do not want to be generating too much heat .
that to be a super simple signal processing step .
is there some wisdom you can share about what it take to overcome that challenge ?
weve tried many different version of turning this raw signal into a feature that you might want to send off the device .
and ill say that i do not think we are at the final step of this process .
this is a long journey .
we have something that work clearly today .
but there can be many approach that we find in the future that are much better than what we do now .
some version of what we do now .
and there a lot of academic heritage to these idea .
i do not want to claim that these are original neuralink idea or anything that .
but one of these idea is to build a a convolutional filter almost if you will that slide across the signal and look for a certain template to be matched .
and that template consists of how deep the spike modulates how much it recovers and what the duration and window of time is that the whole process take .
and if you can see in the signal that that template is matched within certain bound then you can say thats a spike .
one reason that approach is super convenient is that you can implement that extremely efficiently in hardware which mean that you can run it in low power across onetwenty four channel at once .
another approach that weve recently started exploring and this can be combined with the spike detection approach something called spike band power .
you might be able to pick up population level activity of thing that are maybe slightly outside the normal recording radius what neuroscientist sometimes refer to a the hash of activity the other stuff thats going on .
and you can look at across many channel how that background noise is behaving you might be able to get more juice out of the signal that way .
but it come at a cost that signal is now a floating point representation which mean it is more expensive to send out over a power .
it mean you have to find different way to compress it that are different than what you can apply to binary signal .
there a lot of different challenge associated with these different modality .
also in term of communication you are limited by the amount of data you can send .
and and also because you are currently using the bluetooth protocol you have to batch stuff together .
but you have to also do this keeping the latency crazy low crazy low .
anything to say about the latency ?
yeah this is a passion project of mine .
i want to build the best mouse in the world .
i do not want to build the the chevrolet spark or whatever of electric car .
i want to build the tesla roadster version of a mouse .
and i do think it is quite possible that within five to ten year that most esports competition are dominated by people with paralysis .
this is a very real possibility for a number of reason .
one is that theyll have access to the best technology to play video game effectively .
the second is they have the time to do .
those two factor together are particularly potent for esport competitor .
unless people without paralysis are also allowed to implant your own .
which is it is another way to interact with a digital device .
it is definitely the case that you have a higher ceiling performance .
you because you do not have to buffer your intention through your arm through your muscle you get by nature of having a brain implant at all seventy five millisecond lead time on any action that you are trying to take .
and there some nuance to this there evidence that the motor cortex you can plan out sequence of action .
you may not get that whole benefit all the time .
but for a reaction time style game where you want to somebody over here snipe them that thing you do have an inherent advantage because you do not need to go through muscle .
the question is how much faster can you make it ?
and we are already faster than what you would do if you are going through muscle from a latency point of view .
and we are in the early stage of that i think we can push it our end to end latency now from brain spike to cursor movement it is about twenty two millisecond .
if you think about the best mouse in the world the best gaming mouse thats about five millisecond ish of latency depending on how you measure depending how fast your screen refreshes there a lot of characteristic that matter there .
but yeah and the rough time for a neuron in the brain to impact your command of your hand is about seventy five millisecond .
if you look at those number you can see that we are already competitive and slightly faster than what youd get by moving your moving your hand .
yeah a opposed to weve gotten used to that latency that natural latency that happens .
is the currently the bottleneck to communication ?
the bluetooth communication is that whats the actual bottleneck ?
there always going to be a bottleneck but whats the current bottleneck ?
yeah a couple thing .
hilariously bluetooth low energy protocol ha some restriction on how fast you can communicate .
the protocol itself establishes a standard of the most frequent update you can send are on the order of seven.five millisecond .
and a we push latency down to the level of individual spike impacting control that level of resolution that protocol is going to become a limiting factor at some scale .
another important nuance to this is that it is not the neural link itself thats part of this equation .
if you start pushing latency below the level of how fast screen refresh then you have another problem .
you need your whole system to be able to be a reactive a the limit of what the technology can offer .
you need the screen one hundred and twenty hertz doesnt work anymore if you are trying to have something respond at something thats at the level of one millisecond .
thats a cool challenge .
i also that for a tshirt the best mouse in the world .
tell me on the receiving end the decoding step .
now we figured out what the spike are weve got them all together now we are sending that over to the app .
whats the decoding step look ?
maybe first what is decoding ?
i think there probably a lot of folk listening that have no clue what what it mean to decode brand nativity .
even if we zoom out beyond that what is the app ?
there an implant thats wirelessly communicating with any digital device that ha an app installed .
maybe can you tell me at high level what the app is what the software is outside of the brain ?
maybe working backwards from the goal the goal is to help someone with paralysis in this case nolan be able to navigate his computer independently .
and we think the best way to do that is to offer them the same tool that we have to navigate our software because we do not want to have to rebuild an entire software ecosystem for the brain at least not yet .
and the job of the application is to translate this wireless stream of brain data coming off the implant into control of the computer .
and we do that by essentially building a mapping from brain activity to the hid input to the actual hardware .
hid is the protocol for communicating input device event .
for example move mouse to this position or press this key down .
and that mapping is fundamentally what the app is responsible for .
but there a lot of nuance of how that mapping work that we spend a lot of time to try to get .
and we are still in the early stage of a long journey to figure out how to do that optimally .
one part of that process is decoding .
decoding is this process of taking the statistical pattern of brain data thats being channeled across this bluetooth connection to the application and turning it into for example the mouse movement .
and that decoding step you can think of it in a couple of different part .
similar to any machine learning problem there a training step and there an inference step .
the training step in our case is a very intricate behavioral process where the user ha to imagine doing different action .
for example theyll be presented a screen with a cursor on it and theyll be asked to push that cursor to the .
then imagine pushing that cursor to the left push it up push it down .
and we can build up a pattern or using any modern ml method of mapping of given this brain data and then imagine behavior map one to the other .
and then at test time you take that same pattern matching system .
in our case it is a deep neural network and you run it and you take the live stream of brain data coming off their implant you decode it by pattern matching to what you saw at calibration time and you use that for control of the computer .
now a couple of rabbit hole that i think are quite interesting one of them ha to do with how you build that best template matching system because there a variety of behavioral challenge and also debugging challenge when you are working with someone who paralyzed .
because again fundamentally you do not observe what they are trying to do .
you can not see them attempt to move their hand .
and you have to figure out a way to instruct the user to do something and validate that they are doing it correctly such that then you can downstream build with confidence the mapping between the neural spike and the intended action .
and by doing the action correctly what i mean is at this level of resolution of what neuron are doing .
if in ideal world you could get a signal of behavioral intent that is ground truth accurate at the scale of one millisecond resolution then with high confidence i could build a mapping from my neural spike to that behavioral intention .
but the challenge is again that you do not observe what they are doing .
and there a lot of nuance to how you build user experience that give you more than a course on average correct representation of what the user is intending to do .
if you want to build the world best mouse you want it to be a responsive a possible .
you want it to be able to do exactly what the user is intending at every step along the way not on average be correct when you are trying to move it from left to .
and building a behavioral calibration game or software experience that give you that level of resolution is what we spend a lot of time working .
the calibration process the interface ha to encourage precision meaning whatever it doe it should be super intuitive that the next thing the human is going to likely do is exactly that intention that you need and only that intention .
and you do not have any feedback except that may be speaking to you afterwards what they did .
thats fundamentally that is a exciting ux challenge because thats all on the ux .
it is not about being friendly or nice or usable .
user experience is how it work .
it is how it work for the calibration and calibration at least at this stage of neuralink is fundamental to the operation of the thing .
and not calibration but continued calibration essentially .
and maybe you said something that i think is worth exploring there a little bit .
you said it is primarily a ux challenge .
and i think a large component of it is but there is also a very interesting machine learning challenge here which is given some data set including some on average correct behavior of asking the user to move up or move down move move left .
and given a data set of neural spike is there a way to infer in some semisupervised or entirely unsupervised way what that high resolution version of their intention is ?
and if you think about it there probably is because there are enough data point in the data set enough constraint on your model that there should be a way with the formulation to let the model figure out itself .
for example at this millisecond this is exactly how hard they are pushing upwards .
and at this millisecond this is how hard they are trying to push upwards .
it is important to have very clean label .
the problem because much harder from the machine learning perspective the label are noisy .
thats correct .
and then to get the clean label thats a ux challenge .
although clean label i think maybe it is worth exploring what that exactly mean .
i think any given labeling strategy will have some number of assumption it make about what the user is attempting to do .
those assumption can be formulated in a loss function or they can be formulated in term of heuristic that you might use to try to estimate or guesstimate what the user is trying to do .
and what matter is how accurate those assumption .
for example you might say hey user push upwards and follow the speed of this cursor .
and your heuristic might be that they are trying to do it exactly what that cursor is trying to do .
another competing heuristic might be they are trying to go slightly faster at the beginning of the movement and slightly slower at the end .
and those competing heuristic may or may not be accurate reflection of what the user is trying to do .
another version of the task might be hey user imagine moving this cursor a fixed offset .
rather than follow the cursor try to move it exactly two hundred pixel to the .
here the cursor here the target .
cursor disappears try to move that now invisible cursor two hundred pixel to the .
and the assumption in that case would be that the user can modulate correctly that position offset .
but that position offset assumption might be a weaker assumption .
and therefore potentially you can make it more accurate than these heuristic that are trying to guesstimate at each millisecond what the user is trying to do .
you can imagine different task that make different assumption about the nature of the user intention .
and those assumption being correct is what i would think of a a clean label .
for that step what are we supposed to be visualizing ?
there a cursor .
and you want to move that cursor to the or the left up and down or maybe move them by a certain offset .
thats one way .
is that the best way to do calibration ?
is that or is it is that not an effective way for initial calibration ?
yeah great question .
there a lot to unpack there .
the first thing i would draw a distinction between is open loop first close loop .
open loop what by that is the user is going from zero to one they have no model at all and they are trying to get to the place where they have some level of control at all .
in that setup you need to have some task that give the user a hint of what you want them to do such that you can build it mapping again from brain data to output .
then once they have a model you could imagine them using that model and adapting to it and figuring out the way to use it themselves and then retraining on that data to give you a boost in performance .
there a lot of challenge associated with both of these technique and we can wrap it all into both of them if you are interested but the challenge with the open loop task is that the user themselves doesnt get proprioceptive feedback about what they are doing .
they do not necessarily perceive themselves or feel the mouse under their hand when they are using an open loop when they are trying to do an open loop calibration .
they are being asked to perform something imagine if you had your whole arm numbed and you stuck it in a box and you couldnt see it .
you had no visual feedback and you had no proprioceptive feedback about what the position or activity of your arm wa .
now you are asked given this thing on the screen thats moving from left to match that speed .
you can try your best to invoke whatever that imagined action is in your brain thats moving the cursor from left to but in any situation you are going to be inaccurate and maybe inconsistent in how you do that task .
thats the fundamental challenge of open loop .
the challenge with closed loop is that once the user given a model and they are able to start moving the mouse on their own they are going to very naturally adapt to that model .
and that coadaptation between the model learning what they are doing and the user learning how to use the model may not find you the best global minimum .
maybe that your first model wa noisy in some way or maybe had some quirk .
there some part of the data distribution that did not cover super and the user now figure out because they are a brilliant user no one they figured out the sequence of imagined motion or the angle they have to hold their hand at to get it to work .
and theyll get it to work great but then the next day they come back to their device and maybe they do not remember exactly all the trick that they used in the previous day .
and there a complicated feedback cycle here that can emerge and can make it a very very difficult debugging process .
there a lot of fascinating thing there .
yeah to stay on the closed loop .
ive seen situation this happened watching psychology grad student they use piece of software when they do not know how to program themselves they use piece of software that somebody else wrote and it ha a bunch of bug .
and they figure out and theyve been using it for year they figure out way to work around that happens .
nobody considers maybe we should fix this they adapt .
and thats a interesting notion that we are good at adapting but you need to still that might not be the optimal .
how do you solve that problem ?
do you have to restart from scratch every once in a while thing ?
yeah it is a good question .
first and foremost i would say this is not a solve problem .
and for anyone who listening in academia who work on bcis i would also say this is not a problem thats solved by simply scaling channel count .
this is maybe that can help when you can get richer covariant structure that you can use to exploit when trying to come up with good labeling strategy .
but if you are interested in problem that are not going to be solved inherently by scaling channel count this is one of them .
yeah how do you solve it ?
it is not a solve problem .
thats the first thing i want to make sure it get across .
the second thing is any solution that involves closed loop is going to become a very difficult debugging problem .
and one of my general heuristic for choosing what problem to tackle is that you want to choose the one thats going to be the easiest to debug .
because if you can do that even if the ceiling is lower you are going to be able to move faster because you have a tighter iteration loop debugging the problem .
and in the open loop setting there not a feedback cycle to debug with the user in the loop .
and there some reason to think that that should be an easier debugging problem .
the other thing thats worth understanding is that even in a closed loop setting there no special software magic of how to infer what the user is truly attempting to do .
in the closed loop setting although they are moving the cursor on the screen they may be attempting something different than what your model is outputting .
what the model is outputting is not a signal that you can use to retrain if you want to be able to improve the model further .
you still have this very complicated guesstimation or unsupervised problem of figuring out what is the true user intention underlying that signal .
and the open loop problem ha the nice property of being easy to debug .
and the second nice property of it ha all the same information and content a a closed loop scenario .
another thing i want to mention and call out is that this problem doesnt need to be solved in order to give useful control to people .
even today with the solution we have now and that academia ha built up over decade the level of control that can be given to a user today is quite useful .
it doesnt need to be solved to get to that level of control .
but again i want to build the world best mouse .
i want to make it good that it is not even a question that you want it .
and to build the world best mouse the superhuman version you need to nail that problem .
and a couple maybe detail of previous study that weve done internally that i think are very interesting to understand when thinking about how to solve this problem .
you can imagine building a data set of whats going on in the brain and what is the mouse exactly doing on the table .
and it turn out that if you build the mapping from neurospikes to predict exactly what the mouse is doing that model will perform worse than a model that is trained to predict higher level assumption about what the user might be trying to do .
for example assuming that the monkey is trying to go in a straight line to the target .
it turn out that making those assumption is more effective in producing a model than predicting the underlying hand movement .
the intention not the physical movement or whatever .
there obviously a very strong correlation between the two but the intention is a more powerful thing to be chasing .
thats also super interesting .
the intention itself is fascinating because yes with the bci here in this case with the digital telepathy you are acting on the intention not the action which is why there an experience of feeling it is happening before you meant for it to happen .
that is cool .
and that is why you could achieve superhuman performance probably in term of the control of the mouse .
for open loop to clarify whenever the person is tasked to move the mouse to the you said there not feedback .
they do not get to get that satisfaction of getting it to move. ?
you could imagine giving the user feedback on a screen but it is difficult because at this point you do not know what they are attempting to do .
what can you show them that would give them a signal of i am doing this correctly or not correctly ?
let take this very specific example .
maybe your calibration task look you are trying to move the cursor a certain position offset .
your instruction to the user are hey the cursor here .
now when the cursor disappears imagine moving it two hundred pixel from where it wa to the to be over this target .
in that scenario you could imagine coming up with some consistency metric that you could display to the user of i know what the spike train look on average when you do this action to the .
maybe i can produce some probabilistic estimate of how likely is that to be the action you took given the latest trial or trajectory that you imagined .
and that could give the user some feedback of how consistent are they across different trial .
you could also imagine that if the user is prompted with that consistency metric that maybe they become more behaviorally engaged to begin with because the task is boring when you do not have any feedback at all .
and there may be benefit to the the user experience of showing something on the screen even if it is not accurate because it keep the user motivated to try to increase that number or push it upwards .
there a psychology element here .
yeah absolutely .
and again all of that is ux challenge .
how much signal drift is there ?
hour to hour day to day week to week month to month how often do you have to recalibrate because of the signal drift ?
this is a problem weve worked on both with nhp nonhuman primate before our clinical trial and then also with noland during the clinical trial .
maybe the first thing thats worth stating is what the goal is here .
the goal is to enable the user to have a plug and play experience where i guess they do not have to plug anything in but a play experience where they can use the device whenever they want to however they want to .
and thats what we are aiming for .
and there can be a set of solution that get to that state without considering this nonstationarity problem .
maybe the first solution here thats important is that they can recalibrate whenever they want .
this is something that noland ha the ability to do today .
he can recalibrate the system at 2am in the middle of the night without his caretaker or parent or friend around to help push a button for him .
the other important part of the solution is that when you have a good model calibrated that you can continue using that without needing to recalibrate it .
how often he ha to do this recalibration today depends on his appetite for performance .
there are we observe a a degradation through time of how any individual model work but this can be mitigated behaviorally by the user adapting their control strategy .
it can also be mitigated through a combination of software feature that we provide to the user .
for example we let the user adjust exactly how fast the cursor is moving .
we call that the gain for example the gain of how fast the cursor reacts to any given input intention .
they can also adjust the smoothing how smooth the output of that cursor intention is .
they can also adjust the friction which is how easy it is it to stop and hold still .
and all these software tool allow the user a great deal of flexibility and troubleshooting mechanism to be able to solve this problem for themselves .
all this is done by looking to the side of the screen selecting the mixer and the mixer you have it is dj mode .
it is a done interface .
and yeah there that bias that there a cursor drift that nolan talked about in a stream .
although he said that you guy were playing around with it with him and they are constantly improving .
that could have been a snapshot of that particular moment a particular day .
but he said that there wa this cursor drift and this bias that could be removed by him i guess looking to the side of the screen the left side of the screen to adjust the bias .
thats one interface action i guess to adjust the bias .
this is an idea that come out of academia .
there wa some prior work with brain gate clinical trial participant where they pioneered this idea of bias correction .
bias maybe for people who are not familiar is what is the default motion of the cursor if you are imagining nothing .
and it turn out that thats one of the first qualia of the cursor control experience thats impacted by neuron nonstationarity .
quality of the cursor experience .
i do not know how else to describe it .
i am not the guy moving .
it is poetic .
the quality of the cursor experience .
yeah it is not poetic but it is deeply true .
there is an experience when it work it is a joyful a pleasant experience .
and when it doesnt work it is a very frustrating experience .
thats the art of ux .
it is you have the possibility to frustrate people or the possibility to give them joy .
and at the end of the day it is truly the case that ux is how the thing work .
and it is not whats shown on the screen .
it is also what control surface doe a decoder provide the user ?
we want them to feel they are in the f1 car not some minivan ?
and thats truly is how we think about it .
nolan himself is an f1 fan .
we refer to ourselves a a pit crew .
he is truly the f1 driver .
and there different control surface that different kind of car and airplane provide the user .
and we take a lot of inspiration from that when designing how the cursor should behave .
and what maybe one nuance of this is even detail when you move a mouse on a macbook trackpad the response curve of how that input that you give the trackpad translates to cursor movement is different than how it work with a mouse .
when you move on the trackpad there a different response function a different curve to how much a movement translates to input to the computer than when you do it physically with a mouse .
and thats because somebody sat down a long time ago when they are designing the initial input system to any computer and they thought through exactly how it feel to use these different system .
and now we are designing the next generation of this input system to a computer which is entirely done via the brain .
and there no purpose of the feedback .
again you do not feel the mouse in your hand .
you do not feel the key under your fingertip .
and you want a control surface that still make it easy and intuitive for the user to understand the state of the system and how to achieve what they want to achieve .
and ultimately the end goal is that that ux is completely it fade into the background it becomes something thats natural and intuitive that it is subconscious to the user .
and they should feel they have direct control over the cursor doe what they want it to do .
they are not thinking about the implementation of how to make it do what they want it to do .
it is doing what they want it to do .
is there some thing along the line of fitts law where you should move the mouse in a certain way that maximizes your chance to hit the target ?
i do not even know what i am asking but i am hoping the intention of my question will land on a profound answer .
is there some understanding of the law of ux when it come to the context of somebody using their brain to control it ?
thats different than actual with a mouse ?
i think we are in the early stage of discovering those law .
i wouldnt claim to have solved that problem yet .
but there definitely some thing weve learned that make it easier for the user to get stuff done .
and it is pretty straightforward when you verbalize it but it take a while to get to that point when you are in the process of debugging the stuff in the trench .
one of those thing is that any machine learning system that you build ha some number of error .
and it matter how those error translate to the downstream user experience .
for example if you are developing a search algorithm in your photo if you search for your friend joe and it pull up a photo of your friend josephine maybe thats not a big deal because the cost of an error is not that high .
in a different scenario where you are trying to detect insurance fraud or something this and you are directly sending someone to court because of some machine learning model output then the error make a lot more sense to be careful about .
you want to be very thoughtful about how those error translate to downstream effect .
the same a true in bci .
for example if you are building a model thats decoding a velocity output from the brain versus an output where you are trying to modulate the left click for example these have different tradeoff of how precise you need to be before it becomes useful to the end user .
for velocity it is to be on average correct because the output of the model is integrated through time .
if the user is trying to click at position a and they are currently in position b they are trying to navigate over time to get between those two point .
and a long a the output of the model is on average correct they can steer through time with the user control in the mix they can get to the point they want to get to .
the same is not true of a click .
for a click you are performing it almost instantly at the scale of neuron firing .
and you want to be very sure that that click is correct because a false click can be very destructive to the user .
they might accidentally close the tab that they are trying to do something and lose all their progress .
they might accidentally hit some send button on some text that is only half composed and read funny after .
there different cost function associated with error in this space .
and part of the ux design is understanding how to build a solution that is when it is wrong still useful to the end user .
thats fascinating that assigning cost to every action when an error occurs .
every action if an error occurs ha a certain cost .
and incorporating that into how you interpret the intention mapping it to the action is important .
i did not quite until you said it realize there a cost to sending the text early .
it is a very expensive cost .
it is super annoying .
if you accidentally if you are a cursor imagine if your cursor misclicked every once in a while .
thats super obnoxious .
and the worst part of it is usually when the user is trying to click they are also holding still because they are over the target they want to hit and they are getting ready to click .
which mean that in the data set that we build on average is the case that low speed or desired to hold still is correlated with when the user is attempting to click .
wow that is fascinating .
it is also not the case people think that a click is a binary signal .
this must be super easy to decode .
yes it is .
but the bar is much higher for it to become a useful thing for the user .
and there way to solve this .
you can take the compound approach of let give the let take five second to click .
let take a huge window of time we can be very confident about the answer .
but again world best mouse .
the world best mouse doesnt take a second to click or five hundred millisecond to click .
it take five millisecond to click or le .
and if you are aiming for that high bar then you want to solve the underlying problem .
maybe this is a good place to ask about how to measure performance this whole bit per second .
what can you explain what you mean by that ?
maybe a good place to start is to talk about webgrid a a game a a good illustration of the measurement of performance ?
maybe ill take one zoom out step there which is explaining why we care to measure this at all .
again our goal is to provide the user the ability to control the computer a a i can and hopefully better .
and that mean that they can do it at the same speed a what i can do .
it mean that they have access to all the same functionality that i have including all those little detail command tab command space all this stuff and youd be able to do it with the brain .
and with the same level of reliability a what i can do with my muscle .
and thats a high bar .
and we intend to measure and quantify every aspect of that to understand how we are progressing towards that goal .
there many way to measure bps by this is not the only way but we present the user a grid of target and we compute a score which is dependent on how fast and accurately they can select and then how small are the target .
and the more target that are on the screen the smaller they are the more information you present per click .
and if you think about it from an information theory point of view you can communicate across different information theoretic channel .
and one such channel is a typing interface you could imagine thats built out of a grid a software keyboard on the screen .
and bit per second is a measure thats computed by taking the log of the number of target on the screen .
you can subtract one if you care to model a keyboard because you have to subtract one for the delete key on the keyboard .
but log of the number of target on the screen time the number of correct selection minus incorrect divided by some time window for example sixty second .
and thats the standard way to measure a cursor control task in academia .
and all credit in the world go to this great professor dr. shnoy of stanford who came up with that task .
and he also one of my inspiration for being in the field .
all the credit in the world to him for coming up with a standardized metric to facilitate this bragging right that we have now to say that nolan is the best in the world at this task with his bci .
it is very important for progress that you have standardized metric that people can compare across different technique and approach .
how old doe this do ?
yeah big kudos to him and to all the team at stanford .
yeah for nolan and for me playing this task there also different mode that you can configure this task .
but the simplest purest form is blue target jump on the screen blue mean left click .
thats the simplest form of the game .
and the prior record here in academic work and at neuralink internally with nhps have all been matched or beaten by nolan with his neuralink device .
prior to neuralink the world record for a human user device is somewhere between four.two to four.six bps depending on exactly what paper you read and how you interpret it .
nolans current record is eight.five bps .
and again the median neuralink performance is ten bps .
you can think of it roughly a he eighty five the level of control of a median neuralink using their cursor to select blue target on the screen .
and yeah i think there a very interesting journey ahead to get u to that same level of ten bps performance .
it is not the case that the trick that got u from four to six bps and then six to eight bps are going to be the one that get u from eight to ten .
and in my view the core challenge here is the labeling problem .
it is how do you understand at a very very fine resolution what the user is attempting to do .
and yeah i highly encourage folk in academia to work on this problem .
whats the journey with nolan on that quest of increasing the bps on webgrid ?
in march you said that he selected eighty ninetwo hundred and eighty five target on webgrid .
he love this game .
he serious about improving his performance in this game .
what is that journey of trying to figure out how to improve that performance ?
how much can that be done on the decoding side ?
how much can that be done on the calibration side ?
how much can that be done on the nolan side of figuring out how to convey his intention more cleanly ?
yeah no this is a great question .
in my view one of the primary reason why nolans performance is good is because of nolan .
nolan is extremely focused and very energetic .
hell play webgrid sometimes for four hour in the middle of the night from 2am to 6am hell be playing webgrid because he want to push it to the limit of what he can do .
and this is not u asking him to do that .
i want to be clear .
we are not saying hey you should play webgrid tonight .
we gave him the game a part of our research and he is able to play independently and practice whenever he want and he push hard to push it the technology to the absolute limit .
and he view it a his job to make u be the bottleneck .
and boy ha he done that .
and the first thing to acknowledge is that he is extremely motivated to make this work .
ive also had the privilege to meet other clinical trial participant from braingate and other trial and they very much share the same attitude of they view this a their life work to advance the technology a much a they can .
and if that mean selecting target on the screen for four hour from 2am to 6am then be it .
and there something extremely admirable about that thats worth calling out .
now how do you get from where he started which is no cursor control to 8bps ?
when he started there a huge amount of learning to do on his side and our side to figure out whats the most intuitive control for him .
and the most intuitive control for him is you have to find the set intersection of what do we have the signal to decode .
we do not pick up every single neuron in the motor cortex which mean we do not have representation for every part of the body .
there may be some signal that we have better decode performance on than others .
for example on his left hand we have a lot of difficulty distinguishing his left ring finger from his left middle finger .
but on his hand we have a good good control and good modulation detected from the neuron are able to record for his pinkie and his thumb and his index finger .
you can imagine how these different subspace of modulated activity intersect with whats the most intuitive for him .
and this ha evolved over time .
once we gave him the ability to calibrate model on his own he wa able to go and explore various different way to imagine and control on the cursor .
for example he could imagine control on the cursor by wiggling his wrist side to side or by moving his entire arm by i think he had one point into his foot .
he tried a whole bunch of stuff to explore the space of what is the most natural way for him to control the cursor that at the same time is easy for u to decode .
to clarify it is through the body mapping procedure there you are able to figure out which finger he can move .
thats one way to do it .
maybe one nuance of the when he doing it he can imagine many more thing that we represent in that visual on the screen .
we show him abstractly here a cursor you figure out what work the best for you .
and we obviously have hint about what will work best from that body mapping procedure of we know that this particular action we can represent but it is up to him to go and explore and figure out what work the best .
but at which point doe he no longer visualize the movement of his body and is visualizing the movement of the cursor ?
how quickly doe he go from how quickly doe he get there ?
this happened on a tuesday .
i remember this day very clearly because at some point during the day it looked he wasnt doing super it looked the model wasnt performing super and he wa getting distracted but he it wasnt the case .
what happened wa he wa trying something new where he wa controlling the cursor .
he wasnt imagining moving his hand anymore .
he wa imagining i do not know what it is some abstract intention to move the cursor on the screen .
and i can not tell you what the difference between those two thing are .
i truly can not .
he tried to explain it to me before .
i can not give a first person account of what thats but the expletive that he uttered in that moment were enough to suggest that it wa a very qualitatively different experience for him to have direct neural control over a cursor .
i wonder if there a way through ux to encourage a human being to discover that because he discovered it you said to me that he a pioneer .
he discovered that on his own through all of this the process of trying to try to move the cursor with different kind of intention .
but that is clearly a powerful thing to arrive at which is to let go of trying to control the finger and the hand and control the actual digital device with your mind .
ux is how it work .
and the ideal ux is one that the user doesnt have to think about what they need to do in order to get it done .
that is fascinating .
but i wonder on the biological side how long it take for the brain to adapt .
is it simply learning high level software ?
or is there a neuroplasticity component where the brain is adjusting slowly ?
yeah the truth is i do not know .
i am very excited to see with the second participant that we implement what the journey is for them because well have learned a lot more .
potentially we can help them understand and explore that direction more quickly .
this wasnt me prompting nolan to go try this .
he wa exploring how to use his device and figure it out himself .
but now that we know that thats a possibility that maybe there a way to for example hint the user do not try super hard during calibration .
do something that feel natural or directly control the cursor .
and from there we should be able to hopefully understand how this is for somebody who ha not experienced that before .
maybe thats the default mode of operation for them .
you do not have to go through this intermediate phase of explicit motion .
or maybe if that naturally happens for people you can occasionally encourage them to allow themselves to move the cursor .
sometimes with a fourminute mile the knowledge that thats possible push you to do it .
yeah enables you to do it and then it becomes trivial .
and then it also make you wonder this is the cool thing about human .
once there a lot more human participant they will discover thing that are possible and share their experience .
yeah and share it .
and then because of them sharing it theyll be able to do it .
all of a sudden thats unlocked for everybody .
because the knowledge sometimes is the thing that enables it to do it .
yeah coming on that too weve probably tried a thousand different way to do various aspect of decoding .
and now we know what the subspace is to continue exploring further .
again thanks to nolan and the many hour he put into this .
and even that help constraint or the beam search of different approach that we could explore help .
how do i say for the next person the set of thing that well get to try on day one how fast we hope to get them to useful control how fast we can enable them to use it independently and to give value out of the system .
yeah massive hat off to nolan and all the participant that came before him to make this technology a reality .
how often are the update to the decoder ?
because nolan mentioned there a new update that we are working on and that in the stream he said he play the snake game because it is super hard .
it is a good way for him to test how good the update is .
and he say sometimes the update is a step backwards .
it is a constant iteration .
how often what doe the update entail ?
is it mostly on the decoder side ?
yeah a couple comment .
one is probably worth trying distinction between research session where we are actively trying different thing to understand what the best approach is versus independent use where we want to have ability to go use the device how anybody would want to use their macbook .
and in those scenario we try in any given session hell sometimes work for eight hour a day .
and that can be hundred of different model that we would try in that day a lot of different thing .
now it is also worth noting that we update the application he us quite frequently .
i think sometimes up to four or five time a day well update his application with different feature or bug fix or feedback that he given u . he been able to he a very articulate person who is part of the solution .
he not a complaining person .
he say hey here this thing that ive ive discovered is is not optimal in my flow .
here some idea how to fix it .
let me know what your thought are .
let figure out how to how to solve it .
and it often happens that those thing are addressed within a couple hour of him giving u his feedback that thats a iteration cycle well have .
and sometimes at the beginning of the session hell give u feedback .
and at the end of the session he he giving u feedback on the next iteration of that of that of that process or that setup .
thats fascinating .
because one of the thing you mentioned that there wa two hundred and seventy one page of note taken from the bci session and this wa in march .
one of the amazing thing about human being that they can provide especially one who are smart and excited and all positive and good vibe nolan that they can provide feedback continuous feedback .
it also requires to brag on the team a little bit .
i work with a lot of exceptional people and it requires the team being absolutely laser focused on the user and what will be the best for them .
and it requires a level of commitment of this is what the user feedback wa .
i have all these meeting we are going to skip that today and we are going to do this .
that level of focus commitment is i would say under underappreciated in the world .
and also you obviously have to have the talent to be able to execute on these thing effectively .
and yeah we have that in load .
and this is such a interesting space of ux design because you have there many unknown here .
and i can tell ux is difficult because of how many people do it poorly .
it is not a trivial thing .
it is also ux is not something that you can always solve by constant iterating on different thing .
sometimes you need to step back and think globally am i even the minimum to be chasing down for a solution ?
there a lot of problem in which fast iteration cycle is the predictor of how successful you will be .
a a good example in a in an rl simulation for example the more frequently you get a reward the faster you can progress .
it is an easier learning problem the more frequently you get feedback .
but ux is not that way .
user are quite often wrong about what the solution is .
and it requires a deep understanding of the technical system and whats possible combined with what the problem is you are trying to solve not how the user express it but what the true underlying problem is to get to the place .
yeah thats the old story of steve job rolling in there yeah the user is a good is a useful signal but it is not a perfect signal .
and sometimes you have to remove the floppy disk drive or whatever the i think that all the crazy story of steve job making wild design decision .
but there some some of this aesthetic that some of it is about the love you put into the design which is very much a steve job johnny ive type thing .
but when you have a human being using their brain to interact with it there is also is deeply about function .
it is not aesthetic .
and that you have to empathize with the human being before you while not always listening to them directly .
they get to deeply empathize .
it is fascinating .
it is fascinating .
and at the same time iterate but not iterate in a small way sometimes a complete rebuilding the design .
he said that nolan said in the early day the ux sucked but you improved quickly .
what wa that journey ?
yeah ill give one concrete example .
he wanted to be able to read manga .
this is something that he it sound a simple thing but it is a big deal for him .
and he couldnt do it with this mouse stick .
it wasnt accessible .
you can not scroll with the mouse stick on his ipad and on the website that he wanted to be able to use to read the newest manga .
and it might be a good quick pause to say the mouse stick is the thing he using holding a stick in his mouth to scroll on a tablet. . yeah .
it is you can imagine it is a stylus that you hold between your teeth .
it is a very long stylus .
and it is exhausting .
it hurt and it is inefficient .
and maybe it is also worth calling out .
there are other alternative resistive technology but that particular situation nolans in and this is not uncommon and i think it is also not understood by folk is that he relatively spastic hell have muscle spasm from time to time .
these kind of consideration are important when thinking about what advantage a pci ha in someone life .
one of these very fun example is scroll .
again manga is something he wanted to be able to read .
and there many way to do scroll with a bci .
you can imagine different gesture for example the user could do that would move the page .
but scroll is a very fascinating control surface because it is a huge thing on the screen in front of you .
any jitter in the model output any error in the model output cause an earthquake on the screen .
you do not want to have your manga page that you are trying to read be shifted up and down a few pixel because your scroll decoder is not completely accurate .
and what we ended up building is this brilliant feature .
this is a teammate named bruce who worked on this brilliant work called quick scroll .
and quick scroll look at the screen and it identifies where on the screen are scroll bar .
and it doe this by deeply integrating with mac o to understand where are the scroll bar actively present on the screen using the accessibility tree thats available to mac o apps .
and we identified where those scroll bar are and provided a bci scroll bar .
and the bci scroll bar look similar to a normal scroll bar but it behaves very differently in that once you move over to it your cursor morphs onto it it attache or latch onto it .
and then once you push up or down in the same way that you would use a push to control the normal cursor it move the screen for you .
it is remapping the velocity to a scroll action .
and the reason that feel natural and intuitive is that when you move over to attach to it it feel magnetic .
you stuck onto it .
and then it is one continuous action you do not have to switch your imagined movement you snap onto it and then you get to go .
you immediately can start pulling the page down or pushing it up .
and even once you get that there many little nuance of how the scroll behavior work to make it natural and intuitive .
one example is momentum .
when you scroll a page with your finger on the screen you have some flow it doesnt stop when you lift your finger up .
the same is true with bci scroll .
we had to spend some time to figure out what are the nuance when you do not feel the screen under your fingertip anymore ?
what is the dynamic or whats the amount of page give if you will when you push it to make it flow the amount for the user to have a natural experience reading their book .
and there a million there i could tell you there many little minutia of how exactly that scroll work that we spent probably a month getting to make that feel extremely natural and easy for the user to navigate .
even the scroll on a smartphone with your finger feel extremely natural and pleasant .
and it probably take an extremely long time to get that .
and the same visionary ux design that we are talking about do not always listen to the user but also listen to them and also have visionary big throw everything out think from first principle but also not .
because the current scroll bar experience and the desktop is horrible .
it is hard to find hard to control .
there not a momentum .
and the intention should be clear when i start moving towards the scroll bar there should be a snapping to the scroll bar action .
but of course maybe i am paying that cost but there hundred of million of people paying that cost nonstop .
but anyway but in this case this is necessary because there an extra cost paid by nolan for the jitteriness .
you have to switch between the scrolling and the reading .
there ha to be a phase shift between the two when you are scrolling you are scrolling .
that is one drawback of the current current approach .
maybe one other case study here .
again ux is how it work .
and we think about that holistically from the even the future detection level of what we detect in the brain to how we design the decoder what we choose to decode to then how it work once it is being used by the user .
another good example in that how it work once they are using the decoder the output thats displayed on the screen is not what the decoder say it is also a function of whats going on on the screen .
similar to how when you are typing on your phone if you are used to the io keyboard for example it adapts the target size of individual key based on an underlying language model .
itll understand if i am typing hey i am going to see l itll make the ekey bigger because in those lock that the person i am going to go see .
and that predictiveness can make the experience much more smooth even without improvement to the underlying decoder or or feature detection part of the stack .
we do that with a feature called magnetic target we index the screen and we understand these are the place that are very small target it might be difficult to hit .
here the cursor dynamic around that location that might be indicative of the user trying to select it .
let blow up the size of it in a way that make it easier for the user to snap onto that target .
all these little detail they matter a lot in helping the user be independent in their daytoday living .
how much of the work on the decoder is generalizable to p2 p3 p4 p5 pn ?
how do you improve the decoder in a way thats generalizable ?
yeah great question .
the underlying signal we are trying to decode is going to look very different in p2 than in p1 .
but the approach is the method the user experience of how do you get the behavioral pattern from the user to associate with that neural signal we hope that will translate over multiple generation of user .
and beyond that it is very very possible in fact quite likely that weve overfitted to nolans user experience desire and preference .
and what i hope to see is that when we get a second third fourth participant that we find what the wide minimas are that cover all the case that make it more intuitive for everyone .
and hopefully there a crosspollination of thing where we did not think about that with this user because they can speak .
but with this user who can fundamentally not speak at all this user experience is not optimal .
and that will those improvement that we make there should hopefully translate then to even people who can not speak but do not feel comfortable doing because we are in a public setting their doctor office .
the actual mechanism of open loop labeling and then closed loop labeling will be the same and hopefully can generalize across the different user a they are doing the calibration step .
and the calibration step is pretty cool .
that in itself the interesting thing about webgrid which is closed loop it is fun .
i love it when there they used to be an idea of human computation which is using action that human would want to do anyway to get a lot of signal from .
and webgrid is that a nice video game that also serf a great calibration .
it is funny .
ive heard this reaction many time .
before the first user wa implanted we had an internal perception that the first user would not find this fun .
and we thought quite a bit about should we build other game that are more interesting for the user we can get this data and help facilitate research thats for long duration stuff this .
turn out that people love this game .
i always loved it but i did not know that that wa a shared perception .
and in case it is not clear webgrid is there a grid of let say thirty five by thirty five cell and one of them light up blue and you have to move your mouse over that and click on it .
and if you miss it and it is red and i put this game for many hour many hour .
and whats your record you said ?
my i think i have the highest at neuralink now .
which is about if you imagine that thirty five by thirty five grid you are hitting about one hundred trial per minute .
one hundred correct selection in that one minute window .
you are averaging about between five hundred six hundred millisecond per selection .
one of the reason that i think i struggle with that game is i am such a keyboard person .
everything is done with your keyboard .
if i can avoid touching the mouse it is great .
how can you explain your high performance ?
i have a whole ritual i go through .
it is a diet plan associated with this .
it is a whole thing .
the first thing you have to fast for five day .
i have to go up to the mountain .
it the fascinating thing is important .
this is focus the mind .
what i do is i i i do not eat for a little bit beforehand .
and then ill eat a ton of peanut butter before i play .
and i get this is a real thing .
this is a real thing .
and then it ha to be late at night .
this is in a night out .
i think we share but it ha to be midnight 2am time window .
and i have a very specific physical position ill sit in which is i used to be i wa homeschooled growing up .
and i did most of my work on the floor in my bedroom or whatever .
and i have a very specific situation on the floor on the floor that i sit and play .
and then you have to make sure there not a lot of weight on your elbow when you are playing that you can move quickly .
and then i turned the gain of the cursor .
the speed of the cursor way way up .
it is small motion that move the cursor .
are you moving with your wrist or you you are never moving ?
i am moving with my finger .
my wrist is almost completely still .
those in a small tangent which ive been meaning to go down this rabbit hole of people that set the world record in tetri .
those folk they are playing there a there a way to did this ?
it seems all the finger are moving .
you could you could find a way to do it where it is using a loophole a bug that you can do some incredibly fast stuff .
it is it is along that line but not quite .
but you do realize therell be a few programmer now listening to this whole fast and eat peanut butter .
please please try my record .
the reason i did this wa because i wanted the bar to be high .
i wanted the the number that we aim for should not be the median performance .
it should be it should be able to beat all of u at least that should be the minimum bar .
what do you think is possible ?
yeah i do not know what the limit .
the limit you can calculate in term of screen refresh rate and cursor immediately jumping to the next target .
but there i am sure there limit before that with reaction time and visual perception and thing this .
i would guess it is in the below forty but above twenty somewhere in there .
it is probably that there .
i never be thinking about .
it also matter how difficult the task is .
you could imagine some people might be able to do tenzero target on the screen and maybe they can do better that way .
there some task optimization you could do to try to boost your performance a . what do you think it take for nolan to be able to do above eight five to keep increasing that number ?
you said every increase in the number might require different yeah different improvement in the system .
yeah i think the nature of this work is the first the first answer thats important to say is i do not know .
this is edge of the research .
again nobody gotten to that number before .
whats next is going to be a heuristic a guess from my part .
what weve seen historically is that different part of the stack would come by next to different time point .
when i first joined erlang three year ago or one of the major problem wa the latency of the bluetooth connection .
it wa the radio device wasnt super good .
it wa an earlier vision of the implant .
and it no matter how good your decoder wa if your thing is updating every thirty millisecond or fifty millisecond it is going to be choppy .
and no matter how good you are thats going to be frustrating and lead to challenge .
at that point it wa very clear that the main challenge is get the data off the device in a very reliable way such that you can enable the next challenge to be tackled .
that wa a problem for a bit .
and once you saw that it became a different bottleneck .
i think the next bottleneck after that wa software stability and reliability .
if you have widely varying inference latency in your system or your app lag out every once in a while it decrease your ability to maintain and get in a state of flow and it disrupts your control experience .
and there a variety of different software bug and improvement we made that increased the performance of the system made it much more reliable much more stable and led to a state where we could reliably collect data to build better model with .
that wa a bottleneck for a while .
it is the software stack itself .
if i were to guess now there two major direction you could think about for improving bps further .
the first major direction is labeling .
labeling is again this fundamental challenge of given a window of time where the user is expressing some behavioral intent what are they trying to do at the granularity of every millisecond ?
and that again is a task design problem .
it is a machine learning problem .
it is a software problem .
it touch all those different domain .
the second thing you can think about to improve bps further is either completely changing the thing you are decoding or extending the number of thing that you are decoding .
this is serving the direction of functionality .
for example a left click a click a middle click different action click and drag for example .
and that can improve the effective bit rate of your communication prosthesis .
if you are trying to allow the user to express themselves through any given communication channel you can measure that with this per second .
but what measure at the end of the day is how effective are they at navigating their computer .
and from the perspective of the downstream task that you care about functionality and extending functionality is something we are very interested in because that only can improve the number of bps .
but it can also improve the downstream independence that the user ha and the skill and efficiency with which they can operate their computer .
would the number of thread increasing also potentially help ?
short answer is yes .
it is a bit nuanced how that curve or how that manifest in the number .
a you move further out in number of channel you get a corresponding logarithmic improvement in control quality and offline validation metric .
the important nuance here is that each channel corresponds with a specific represented intention in the brain .
for example if you have a channel two hundred and fifty four it might correspond with moving to the .
channel two hundred and fifty six might mean move to the left .
if you want to expand the number of function you want to control you want to have a broader set of channel that cover a broader set of imagined movement .
you can think of it mr. potato man if you had a bunch of different imagined movement you could do how would you map those imagined movement to input to a computer ?
you could imagine handwriting to output character on the screen .
you could imagine typing with your finger and have that output text on the screen .
you could imagine different finger modulation for different click .
you can imagine wiggling your big nose for opening some menu or wiggling your your big toe to have command tab occur or something this .
it is the amount of different action you can take in the world depends on how many channel you have and the information content that they carry .
thats more about the number of action .
a you increase the number of thread thats more about increasing the number of action you are able to perform .
one other nuance there that is worth mentioning .
again our goal is to enable a user with process to control the computer a fast a i can .
thats bps with all the same functionality i have which is what we talked about but then also a reliably a i can .
and that last point is very related to channel count discussion .
one core thesis that at least i have is that scaling channel count should improve the reliability system without any work on the decoder itself .
can you look around the reliability here ?
first of all when a nonstationarity of the signal which aspect are you referring to ?
maybe let talk briefly what the actual underlying signal look .
again i spoke very briefly at the beginning about how when you imagine moving to the or imagine moving to the left neuron might fire more or le .
and their frequency content of that signal at least in the motor cortex is very correlated with the output intention of the behavioral task that the user is doing .
you could imagine this is not obvious at rate coding which is the name of that phenomenon is the only way the brain can represent information .
you can imagine many different way in which the brain could encode intention .
and there evidence in bath for example that there temporal code timing code of exactly when particular neuron fire is the mechanism of information representation .
but at least in the motor cortex there substantial evidence that it is rate coding or at least one first order effect is that it is rate coding .
then if the brain is representing information by changing the frequency of a neuron firing what matter is the delta between the baseline state of the neuron and what it look when it is modulated .
and if what you are trying to measure is how much rice is in the pot you are going to get a different measurement different day because you are measuring with different pot .
that baseline rate shifting is the thing that at least from a first order description of the problem is whats causing this downstream bias .
there can be other effect not linear effect on top of that but at least at a very first order description of the problem thats what we observe day to day is that the baseline firing rate of any particular neuron or observed on a particular channel is changing .
can you adjust to the baseline to make it relative to the baseline nonstop ?
yeah this is a great question .
with monkey we have found various way to do this .
for whatever reason that doesnt work super with nolan .
i do not know the full reason why but i can imagine several several explanation .
one such explanation could be that the context effect difference between some open loop task and some closed loop task is much more significant with nolan than it is with a monkey .
maybe in this open loop task he watching the lex freeman podcast while he doing the task or he whistling and listening to music and talking with his friend and ask his mom whats for dinner while he doing this task .
and the exact difference in context between those two state may be much larger and thus lead to a bigger generalization gap between the feature that you are normalizing at open loop time and what you are trying to use at closed loop time .
thats interesting .
on that point it is incredible to watch nolan be able to do to multitask to do multiple task at the same time to be able to move the mouse cursor effectively while talking and while being nervous because he talking in front of the camera .
kicking my as and chest too .
and now we are talking trash while doing it .
all at the same time .
and yes if you are trying to normalize to the baseline that might throw everything off .
boy is that interesting .
maybe one comment on that too for folk that are not familiar with assisted technology .
i think there a common belief that why can not you use an eye tracker or something this for helping somebody move a mouse on the screen ?
and it is a fair question and one that i wa not confident before nolan that this wa going to be a profoundly transformative technology for people him .
and i am very confident now that it will be but the reason are subtle .
it ha to do with ergonomically how it fit into their life .
even if you can offer the same level of control a what they would have with an eye tracker or with a mouse stick .
but you do not need to have that thing in your face .
you do not need to be positioned in a certain way .
you do not need your caretaker to be around to set it up for you .
you can activate it when you want how you want wherever you want .
that level of independence is game changing for people .
it mean that they can text a friend at night privately without their mom needing to be in the loom .
it mean that they can open up and browse the internet at 2am when nobody around to set their ipad up for them .
this is a profoundly game changing thing for folk in that situation .
and this is even before we start talking about folk that may not be able to communicate at all or ask for help when they want to .
this can be potentially the only link that they have to the outside world .
and yeah that one doesnt i think need explanation of why thats impactful .
how much machine learning is in the decoder ?
how much magic ?
how much science ?
how much art ?
how difficult is it to come up with a decoder that figure out what these sequence of spike mean ?
yeah good question .
there a couple of different way to answer this .
maybe ill zoom out briefly first and then ill go down one of the rabbit hole .
and the zoomed out view is that building the decoder is the process of building the data set plus compiling it into the weight .
and each of those step is important .
the direction i think of further improvement is primarily going to be in the data set side of how do you construct the optimal label for the model .
but there an entirely separate challenge of then how do you compile the best model .
and ill go briefly down the second one down the second rabbit hole .
one of the main challenge with designing the optimal model for bci is that offline metric do not necessarily correspond to online metric .
it is fundamentally a control problem .
the user is trying to control something on the screen .
and the exact user experience of how you output the intention impact their ability to control .
for example if you look at validation loss a predicted by your model there can be multiple way to achieve the same validation loss .
not all of them are equally controllable by the end user .
and it might be a simple a saying you could add auxiliary loss term that help you capture the thing that matter .
but this is a very complex nuanced process .
how you turn the label into the model is more of a nuanced process than a standard supervised learning problem .
one very fascinating anecdote here weve tried many different neural network architecture that translate brain data to velocity output for example .
and one example that stuck in my brain from a couple year ago now is at one point we were using fully connected network to decode the brain activity .
we tried a ab test where we were measuring the relative performance in online control session of one deconvolution over the input signal .
if you imagine per channel you have a sliding window thats producing some convolved feature for each of those input sequence for every single channel simultaneously you can get better validation metric meaning you are fitting the data better .
and it is generalizing better and offline data if you use this convolutional architecture .
you are reducing parameter it is a standard procedure when you deal with time series data .
now it turn out that when using that model online the controllability wa worse wa far worse even though the offline metric were better .
and there can be many way to interpret that .
there still some artistry left to be uncovered here of how to get your model to scale with more compute .
and that may be fundamentally labeling problem but there may be other component to this a . is it data constrained at this time ?
which is what it sound ?
how do you get a lot of good label ?
yeah i think it is data quality constrained not necessarily data quantity constrained .
but even even the quantity because it ha to be trained on the interaction .
i guess there not that many interaction .
yeah it depends what version of this you are talking about .
if you are talking about let say the simplest example of 2d velocity then i think yeah data quality is the main thing .
if you are talking about how to build a multifunction output that let you do all the input to the computer that you and i can do then it is a much more sophisticated nuanced modeling challenge .
one example of an interesting bug from week one of a bci with nolan wa when he moved the mouse the click signal dropped off a cliff and when he stopped the click signal went up .
again there a contamination between the two input .
another good example wa at one point he wa trying to do a left click and drag .
and the minute he started moving the left click signal dropped off a cliff .
again because there some contamination between the two signal you need to come up with some way to either in the dataset or in the model build robustness against this you think of it overfitting but it is that model ha not seen this variability before .
you need to find some way to help the model with that .
this is super cool .
because it feel all of this is very solvable but it is hard .
yes it is fundamentally an engineering challenge .
this is important to emphasize and it is also important to emphasize that it may not need fundamentally new technique which mean that people who work on let say unsupervised speech classification using ctc loss for example with internal tessiri they could potentially have very applicable skill to this .
what thing are you excited about in the future development of the software stack on the neuralink ?
everything weve been talking about the decoding the ux .
i think there something i am excited about from the technology side and some i am excited about for understanding how this technology is going to be best situated for entering the world .
ill work backwards .
on the technology entering the world side of thing i am excited to understand how this device work for folk that can not speak at all that have no ability to bootstrap themselves into useful control by voice command for example and are extremely limited in their current capability .
i think that will be an incredibly useful signal for u to understand what is an existential threat for all startup which is product market fit doe this device have the capacity and potential to transform people life in the current state ?
and if not what are the gap ?
and if there are gap how do we solve them most efficiently ?
thats what i am very excited about for the next year or of clinical trial operation .
the technology side i am quite excited about everything we are doing .
i think it is going to be awesome .
the most prominent one i would say is scaling channel count .
now we have a thousand channel device .
the next version will have between three and six thousand channel .
and i would expect that curve to continue in the future .
and it is unclear what set of problem will disappear completely at that scale .
and what set of problem will remain and require further focus .
and i am excited about the clarity of gradient that that give u in term of the user experience that we choose to focus our time and resource on .
and also in term of the yeah even thing a simple a nonstationarity doe that problem completely go away at that scale ?
or do we need to come up with new creative uxs still even at that point ?
and again you do not have that proper set of feedback .
how can you make that intuitive for a user to control a high dimensional control surface without feeling the thing physically ?
i think thats going to be a super interesting problem .
i am also quite excited to understand do these scaling law continue ?
a you scale channel count how much further out do you go before that saturation point is truly hit ?
and it is not obvious today .
i think we only know whats in the interpolation space .
we only know whats between zero and one thousand two hundred and twenty four but we do not know whats beyond that .
and then there a whole range of interesting neuroscience and brain question which is when you stick more stuff in the brain in more place you get to learn much more quickly about what those brain region represent .
and i am excited about that fundamental neuroscience learning which is also important for figuring out how to most efficiently insert electrode in the future .
yeah i think all those dimension i am excited about .
and that doesnt even get close to touching the software stack that we work on every single day and what we are working on now .
yeah it seems virtually impossible to me that a thousand electrode is where it saturates .
it feel this would be one of those silly notion in the future where obviously you should have million of electrode .
and this is where the true breakthrough happen .
you tweeted some thought are most precisely described in poetry .
what do you think that is ?
i think it is because the information bottleneck of language is pretty steep .
and yet you are you are able to reconstruct on the other person in the other person brain more effectively without being literal .
if you if you can express the sentiment such that in their brain they can reconstruct the actual true underlying meaning and beauty of the thing that you are trying to get across the generator functioning their brain is more powerful than what language can express .
and the mechanism of poetry is to feed or seed that generator function .
being literal sometimes is a suboptimal compression for the thing you are trying to convey .
and it is in the process of the user going through that generation that they understand what you mean .
thats the beautiful part .
it is also when you look at a beautiful painting it is not the pixel of the painting that are beautiful .
it is the thought process that occurs when that the experience of that that is i think that matter .
yeah it is resonating with some deep thing within you that the artist also experienced and wa able to convey that through the pixel .
and thats going to be relevant for full on telepathy .
it is if you read the poetry that doesnt say much of anything interesting .
it requires a human to interpret it .
it is the combination of the human mind and all the experience that human being ha within the context of the collective intelligence of the human specie that make that poem make sense .
and they load that in .
and in that same way the signal that carry from human to human meaning might not may seem trivial but may carry a lot of power because of the complexity of the human mind and the receiving end .
yeah thats interesting .
i had poetry still doesnt who wa it ?
i think yoshibako first watch always said something about all the people that think weve achieved agi explain why human music .
and until the agi like music you havent achieved agi or something that .
do you not think thats some next token entropy surprise thing going on there ?
i do not know either .
i listen to a lot of classical music and also read a lot of poetry .
and yeah i do wonder if there is some element of the next token surprise factor going on there .
because a lot of the trick in both poetry and music are you have some repeated structure and then you do a twist .
it is verse or clause one two three is one thing .
and then clause four is now we are on to the next theme .
and they play with exactly when the surprise happens and the expectation of the user .
and thats even true through history a musician evolve music they take some known structure that people are familiar with and they tweak it a little bit .
they tweak it and add a surprising element .
this is especially true in in classical music heritage .
thats what i am wondering is it all entropy ?
breaking structure or breaking symmetry is something that human seem to maybe a simple a that .
and great artist copy .
and they also knowing which rule to break is the important part .
and that it fundamentally it must be about the listener of the piece .
which rule is the one to break is about the user or the audience member perceiving that a interesting .
what do you think is the meaning of human existence ?
there a tv show i called the west wing .
and in the west wing there a character is the president of the united state who having a discussion about the bible with one of their colleague .
and the colleague say something about the bible say x y and z. and the president say yeah but it also say abc .
and the person say do you believe the bible to be true ?
and the president say yes but i also think that neither of u are smart enough to understand it .
i think to the analogy here for the meaning of life is that largely we do not know the question to ask .
and i think i am very aligned with the hitchhiker guide the galaxy version of this question which is if we can ask the question it is much more likely we find the meaning of human existence .
and in the short term a a heuristic in the search policy space we should try to increase the diversity of people asking such question or generally of consciousness and conscious being asking such question .
again i think ill take the i do not know card here but say i do think there are meaningful thing we can do that improve the likelihood of answering that question .
it is interesting how much value you assign to the task of asking the question .
thats the main thing is not the answer is the question .
and in that situation it is very obvious that what matter is are you asking them the question to be able to say yes or no to .
wow thats powerful .
bliss thank you for everything you do .
and thank you for being you .
and thank you for talking today .
thank you .
thanks for listening to this conversation with bliss chapman .
and now dear friend here nolan arbaugh the first human being to have a neural link device implanted in his brain .
you had a diving accident in two thousand and sixteen that left you paralyzed with no feeling from the shoulder down .
how did that accident change your life ?
there a freak thing that happened .
imagine you are running into the ocean .
although this is a lake but you are running into the ocean and you get to about waist high and then you dive in take the rest of the plunge under the wave or something .
thats what i did .
and then i never came back up .
not sure what happened .
i did it running into the water with a couple of guy .
and my idea of what happened is that i took a stray fist elbow knee foot something to the side of my head .
the left side of my head wa sore for about a month afterward .
and then they both came up and i did not .
and i wa face down in the water for a while .
i wa conscious .
and then eventually realized i couldnt hold my breath any longer .
people i do not know if they that i say that seems i am making light of it all but this is how i am .
and i do not know i am a very relaxed stress free person .
i rolled with the punch for a lot of this .
it is all what can i do next ?
i could somehow survive once i left the hospital .
and then thank god i had my family around me .
if i did not have my parent my sibling then i would have never made it this far .
theyve done much for me more than i can ever thank them for honestly .
and a lot of people do not have that .
a lot of people in my situation their family either are not capable of providing for them or honestly do not want to .
and they get placed somewhere and in some home .
thankfully i had my family .
i have a great group of friend a great group of buddy from college who have all rallied around me .
and we are all still incredibly close .
people always say if you are lucky youll end up with one or two friend from high school that you keep throughout your life .
i have about ten ten or twelve from high school that have all stuck around .
and we still get together all of u twice a year .
we call it the spring series and the fall series .
this last one we all did we dressed up xmen .
yeah i have such a great support system around me .
and being a quadriplegic is not that bad .
i get waited on all the time .
people bring me food and drink .
and i get to sit around and watch a much tv and movie and anime a i want .
i get to read a much a i want .
it is great .
it is beautiful to see that the silver lining and all of this .
we are going back .
do you remember the moment when you first realized you were paralyzed from the neck down ?
i wa face down in the water when i whatever something hit my head .
i tried to get up and i realized i couldnt move and it clicked .
can not move .
if i can not get up i can not flip over can not do anything then i am going to drown eventually .
and i knew i couldnt hold my breath forever .
i held my breath and thought about it for maybe ten fifteen second .
ive heard from other people that onlooker i guess the two girl that pulled me out of the water were two of my best friend .
they were lifeguard .
and one of them said that it looked my body wa shaking in the water .
i wa trying to flip over and stuff .
but i knew .
i knew immediately .
and i i realized that thats what my situation wa from here on out .
maybe if i got to the hospital theyd be able to do something .
when i wa in the hospital before surgery i wa trying to calm one of my friend down .
i had brought her with me from college to camp .
and she wa bawling over me and i wa hey it is going to be fine .
i wa cracking some joke to try to lighten the mood .
the nurse had called my mom and i wa do not tell my mom .
shes going to be stressed out .
call her after i am out of surgery because at least shell have some answer then whether i live or not .
and i did not want her to be stressed through the whole thing .
but i knew .
and then when i first woke up after surgery i wa super drugged up .
they had me on fentanyl three way which wa awesome .
but i saw i saw some crazy stuff on that fentanyl .
and it wa still the best ive ever felt on drug .
medication sorry on medication .
and i remember the first time i saw my mom in the hospital i wa bawling .
i had ventilator in i couldnt talk or anything .
and i started cry because it wa more seeing her not that the whole situation obviously wa pretty rough .
but i wa seeing her face for the first time wa pretty hard .
but yeah i i never had a moment of man i am paralyzed .
this suck .
i do not want to be around anymore .
it wa always i hate that i have to do this but sitting here and wallowing is not going to help .
ha there been low point along the way ?
there are day when i do not feel doing anything not much anymore not for the last couple of year i do not feel that way .
ive more wanted to try to do anything possible to make my life better at this point .
but at the beginning there were some ups and down there were some hard thing to adjust to .
first off the first couple month the amount of pain i wa in wa hard .
i remember screaming at the top of my lung in the hospital because i thought my leg were on fire .
and obviously i can not feel anything but it is all nerve pain .
and that wa a hard night .
i asked them to give me a much pain med a possible that youve had a much a you can have .
deal with it go to a happy place thing .
that wa a pretty low point .
and then every now and again it is hard realizing thing that i wanted to do in my life that i will not be able to do anymore .
i always wanted to be a husband and father and i do not think that i could do it now a a quadriplegic .
maybe it is possible but i am not sure i would ever put someone i love through that having to take care of me and stuff .
not being able to go out and play sport .
i wa a huge athlete growing up .
that wa pretty hard .
little thing too when i realize i can not do them anymore .
there something special about being able to hold a book and smell a book the feel the texture the smell a you turn the page i love it .
and it is little thing that .
the two year mark wa pretty rough .
two year is when they say you will get back a much a you are ever going to get back a far a movement and sensation go .
and for the first two year that wa the only thing on my mind wa try a much a i can to move my finger my hand my foot everything possible to try to get sensation and movement back .
and then when the two year mark hit june 30th two thousand and eighteen i wa sad that thats where i wa .
and then randomly here and there but i wa never depressed for long period of time .
it never seemed worthwhile to me .
what gave you strength ?
my understanding that it wa all for purpose .
and even if that purpose wasnt anything involving narrow link even if that purpose wa there a story in the bible about job .
and i think it is a popular story about how job ha all of these terrible thing happen to him and he praise god throughout the whole situation .
i thought and i think a lot of people think for most of their life that they are job that they are the one going through something terrible and they need to praise god through the whole thing and everything will work out .
at some point after my accident i realized that i might not be job that i might be one of his child that get killed or kidnapped or taken from him .
and it is about terrible thing that happen to those around you who you love .
maybe in this case my mom would be job and she ha to get through something extraordinarily hard .
and i need to try and make it a best a possible for her because shes the one thats going through this massive trial .
and that gave me a lot of strength .
and obviously my family my family and my friend they give me all the strength that i need on a daytoday basis .
it make thing a lot easier having that great support system around me .
from everything ive seen of you online your stream and the way you are today i admire let say your unwavering positive outlook on life .
ha that always been this way ?
ive always thought i could do anything i ever wanted to do .
there wa never anything too big .
whatever i set my mind to i felt i could do it .
i did not want to do a lot .
i wanted to travel around and be a gypsy and go work odd job .
i had this dream of traveling around europe and being i do not know a shepherd in wale or ireland and then going and being a fisherman in italy doing all these thing for a year .
it is such cliche thing but i thought it would be much fun to go and travel and do different thing .
and ive always seen the best in people around me too .
and ive always tried to be good to people .
and growing up with my mom too shes the most positive energetic person in the world .
and we are all people .
i get along great with people .
and i wanted to do everything .
this is how ive been .
it is great to see that cynicism did not take over given everything youve been through .
wa that a deliberate choice you made that you are not going to let this keep you down ?
i i said i roll with the punch with everything .
i always used to tell people i do not stress about thing much .
and whenever id see people getting stressed or say it is not hard do not stress about it .
and thats all you need to do .
and they are thats not how that work .
it work for me .
i do not stress and everything will be fine .
everything will work out .
obviously not everything always go .
and it is not it all work out for the best all the time .
but i do not think stress ha had any place in my life since i wa a kid .
what wa the experience of you being selected to be the first human being to have on your link device implanted in your brain ?
were you scared ?
i wa i wa never afraid of it .
i had to think through a lot .
should i should i do this ?
be the first person i could wait until number two or three and get a better version of the narrow link the first one might not work .
maybe it is going to suck .
it is going to be the worst version ever in a person .
why would i do the first one ?
ive already been selected i could tell them find someone else and then ill do number two or three .
i am sure they would let me .
they are looking for a few people anyways .
but ultimately i wa i do not know there something about being the first one to do something .
it is pretty cool .
i always thought that if i had the chance that i would to do something for the first time this seemed a pretty good opportunity .
and i wa i wa never scared .
i think my faith had a huge part in that .
i always felt god wa preparing me for something .
i almost wish it wasnt this because i had many conversation with god about not wanting to do any of this a a quadriplegic .
i told them ill go out and talk to people ill go out and travel the world and talk to stadium thousand of people give my testimony ill do all of it but heal me first .
do not make me do all this in a chair .
that suck .
and i guess he won that argument .
i did not have much of a choice .
i always felt there wa something going on .
and to see how i guess easily i made it through the interview process and how quickly everything happened how the star aligned with all this .
it told me a the surgery wa getting closer it told me that it wa all meant to happen .
it wa all meant to be .
and i shouldnt be afraid of anything thats to come .
and i wasnt i kept telling myself you say that now but a soon a the surgery come you are probably going to be freaking out .
you are about to have brain surgery .
and brain surgery is a big deal for a lot of people but it is an even bigger deal for me .
it is all i have left the amount of time ive been thank you god that you did not take my brain and my personality and my ability to think my love of learning my character everything thank you much .
a long a you left me that then i think i can get by .
and i wa about to let people go root around in there hey we are going to go put some stuff in your brain hopefully it work out .
and it wa it wa something that gave me pause .
but i said how smoothly everything went i never expected for a second that anything would go wrong .
plus the more people i met on the borough side and on the knurling side they are the most impressive people in the world .
i can not speak enough to how much i trust these people with my life and how impressed i am with all of them .
and to see the excitement on their face to walk into a room and roll into a room and see all of these people looking at me we are we are excited weve been working hard on this and it is finally happening .
it is super infectious .
and it make me want to do it even more and to help them achieve their dream .
i do not know it is it is rewarding .
and i am happy for all of them honestly .
what wa the day of surgery ?
whats when did you wake up ?
yeah minute by minute .
yeah were you freaking out ?
no i thought i wa going to but a surgery approach the night before the morning of i wa excited .
i wa let make this happen .
i think i said that something that to elon on the phone .
before hand we were facetiming .
and i wa let rock and roll .
and he let do it .
i i wasnt scared .
we woke up i think we had to be at the hospital five hundred and thirty am i think surgery wa at seven am .
we woke up pretty early .
i am not sure much of u slept that night .
got to the hospital five hundred and thirty went through all the preop stuff .
everyone wa super nice .
elon wa supposed to be there in the morning but something went wrong with his plane .
we ended up facetiming .
that wa cool .
had one of the greatest oneliners of my life after that phone call .
hung up with him .
there were twenty people around me .
and i wa i hope he wasnt too starstruck talking to me .
did you write that ahead of time ?
i wa this seems .
went into surgery .
i prayed over the room .
i asked god if you would be with my mom in case anything happened to me .
and calm her nerve out there .
woke up and played a bit of a prank on my mom .
i do not know if youve heard about it .
yeah i read about it .
she wa not happy .
can you take me to the prank ?
this is something you regret doing that now ?
it wa something i had talked about ahead of time with my buddy bane .
i wa i would to play a prank on my mom .
very specifically my mom .
shes very gullible .
i think she had knee surgery once even .
and after she came out of knee surgery she wa super groggy .
she wa i can not feel my leg .
and my dad looked at her he wa you do not have any leg .
they had to amputate both your leg .
and we do very mean thing to her all the time .
i am surprised that she still love u . but after surgery i wa worried that i wa going to be too groggy not all there .
i had had anesthesia once before and it messed me up .
i could not function for a while afterwards .
i said a lot of thing that i wa worried that i wa going to start i do not know dropping some bomb and i wouldnt even know .
i wa please god do not let that happen .
and please let me be there enough to do this to my mom .
and she walked in after surgery .
it wa the first time they had been able to see me after surgery .
and she looked at me .
how are you doing ?
and i looked at her and this very i think the anesthesia helped very groggy confused look on my face .
it is who are you ?
and she started looking around the room at the surgeon at the doctor .
what did you do to my son ?
you need to fix this now .
tear started streaming .
i saw how much she wa freaking out .
i wa i can not let this go on .
and i wa mom i am fine .
it is all .
and still she wa not happy about it .
she still say shes going to get me back someday .
but i do not know .
i do not know what thats going to look .
it is a lifelong battle .
but it wa good .
in some sense it wa a demonstration that you still got .
thats all i wanted it to be .
and i knew that doing something super mean to her that would show her .
to show that you are still there that you love her .
yeah exactly .
it is a dark way to do it but i love it .
what wa the first time you were able to feel that you can use the neuralink device to affect the world around you ?
yeah the first little taste i got of it wa not too long after surgery .
some of the neuralink team had brought in a little ipad a little tablet screen and they put up eight different channel that were recording some of my neuron spike .
and they put it in front of me .
they are this is real time your brain firing .
thats super cool .
my first thought wa if they are firing now let see if i can affect them in some way .
i started trying to wiggle my finger .
and i started scanning through the channel .
and one of the thing i wa doing wa moving my index finger up and down .
and i saw this yellow spike on top row third box over or something .
i saw this yellow spike every time i did it .
and i wa thats cool .
and everyone around me wa what are you seeing ?
i wa look at this one .
look at this top row third box over this yellow spike .
thats me there there there .
and everyone wa freaking out .
they started clapping .
i wa thats super unnecessary .
this is whats supposed to happen ?
you are imagining yourself moving each individual finger one at a time .
and then seeing you can notice something .
and then when you did the index finger you are yeah i wa i wa wiggling all of my finger to see if anything would happen .
there wa a lot of other thing going on but that big yellow spike wa the one that stood out to me .
i am sure that if i would have stared at it long enough i could have mapped out maybe one hundred different thing .
but the big yellow spike wa the one that i noticed .
maybe you could speak to what it is to wiggle your finger to to imagine that the mental the cognitive effort required to wiggle your index finger for example .
how easy is that to do ?
pretty easy for me .
thats fascinating .
yeah i know .
it is bizarre but thats part of the recovery process is to keep trying to move your body .
and thats a much a you can .
and the nervous system doe it thing .
it start reconnecting .
itll start reconnecting for some people .
some people theyll do it .
for me i got some bicep control back .
and thats about it .
i can if i try enough i can wiggle some of my finger not on command .
it is more if i try to move say my pinky and i keep trying to move it after a few second itll wiggle .
i know there stuff there .
i know that happens with a few different of my finger and stuff .
but yeah thats what they tell you to do .
one of the people at the time when i wa in the hospital came in and told me for one guy who had recovered most of his control what he thought about every day wa walking the act of walking over and over again .
i tried that for year .
i tried imagining walking which is it is hard .
it is hard to imagine all of the step that go into taking a step all of the thing that have to move all the activation that have to happen along your leg in order for one step to occur .
it is it is imagining over again what i had to do to take a step because it is not something any of u think about .
you do not think about all of the different thing that are going on in your body .
i had to recreate that in my head a much a i could .
and then i practice it over and over and over .
it is not a third person perspective is the first person perspective .
you are it is not you are imagining yourself walking .
you are doing this everything all the same stuff a if you are walking .
which wa hard .
it wa hard at the beginning .
frustrating hard or cognitively hard ?
which way ?
it wa both .
there a scene in one of the kill bill movie oddly enough where she is paralyzed .
i do not know from a drug that wa in her system .
and then she find some way to get into the back of a truck or something .
and she stare at her toe and she say move move your big toe .
and after a few second on screen she doe it .
and she did that with every one of her body part until she can move again .
i did that for year stared at my body and said move your index finger move your big toe .
sometimes vocalizing it out loud but sometimes thinking it i tried every different way to do this to try to get some movement back .
and it feel those signal get stuck in whatever body part that i am trying to move .
and they build up and build up and build up until they burst .
and then once they burst i get this weird sensation of everything dissipating back out to level .
and then i do it again .
it is also a fatigue thing a muscle fatigue but without moving your muscle .
it is very very bizarre .
and then if you try to stare at a body part or think about a body part and move for two three four sometimes eight hour it is very taxing on your mind .
it is take a lot of focus .
it wa a lot easier at the beginning because i wasnt able to control a tv in my room or anything .
i wasnt able to control any of my environment .
for the first few year a lot of what i wa doing wa staring at wall .
and obviously i did a lot of thinking and i tried to move a lot over and over and over again .
do you never give up hope there ?
training hard essentially ?
i do it subconsciously .
and i think that that helped a lot with thing with neuralink honestly something that i talked about the other day at the all hand that i did at neuralinks austin facility .
welcome to austin by the way .
hey thanks man .
nice hat .
hey thanks .
thanks man .
the gigafactory wa super cool .
i went to school at texas am ive been around for ... you should be saying welcome to me .
welcome to texas like .
but yeah i wa talking about how a lot of what theyve had me do especially at the beginning i still do it now is body mapping .
there will be a visualization of a hand or an arm on the screen and i have to do that motion and thats how they train the algorithm to understand what i am trying to do .
and it made thing very seamless for me i think .
thats cool .
it is amazing to know because ive learned a lot about the body mapping procedure with the interface and everything that .
it is cool to know that youve been essentially training to be worldclass at that task .
i do not know if other quadriplegic other paralyzed people give up .
i hope they do not .
i hope they keep drawing because ive heard other paralyzed people say do not ever stop .
they tell you two year but you never know .
the human body is capable of amazing thing .
ive heard other people say do not give up .
i think one girl had spoken to me through some family member and said that she had been paralyzed for eighteen year and shed been trying to wiggle her index finger for all that time and she finally got a bat eighteen year later .
i know that it is possible and ill never give up doing it .
i do it when i am lying down watching tv .
ill find myself doing it almost on it own .
it is something ive gotten used to doing that i do not think ill ever stop .
thats awesome to hear because i think it is one of those thing that can pay off in the long term because it is training .
you are not visibly seen the result of that training at the moment but there an olympic level nervous system getting ready for something .
which honestly wa something that i think nerling gave me that i can not think them enough for .
i can not show my appreciation for it enough .
wa being able to visually see that what i am doing is having some effect .
it is a huge part of the reason why i know now that i am going to keep doing it forever .
because before nerling i wa doing it every day and i wa assuming that thing were happening .
it is not i knew .
i wasnt getting back any mobility or sensation or anything .
i could have been running up against a brick wall for all i knew .
and with nerling i get to see all the signal happening real time .
and i get to see that what i am doing can be mapped when we started doing click calibration and stuff .
when i go to click my index finger for a left click that it recognizes that .
it changed how i think about whats possible with retraining my body to move .
and also the signal that there still a powerhouse of a brain there thats and a the technology develops that brain is thats the most important thing about the human body is the brain .
and it can do a lot of the control .
what did it feel when you first could wiggle the index finger and saw the environment respond ?
that little wherever we are being way too dramatic according to you .
yeah it wa very cool .
it wa cool but i keep telling this to people .
it made sense that there are signal still happening in my brain .
and that a long a you had something near it that could measure those that could record those then you should be able to visualize it in some way see it happen .
and that wa not very surprising to me .
we found one .
we found something that work .
it wa cool to see that their technology worked and that everything that theyd worked hard for wa going to pay off .
but i moved a cursor or anything at that point i had interacted with a computer or anything at that point .
it wa cool .
i did not know much about bci at that point either .
i did not know what step this wa making .
i did not know if this wa a huge deal or if this wa this is it is cool that we got this far but we are hoping for something much better down the road .
it is i thought that they knew that it turned on .
it wa cool .
this is cool .
did you read up on the spec of the hardware you get installed the number of thread ?
yeah i knew all of that .
but it is all greek to me .
i wa thread sixty four thread sixteen electrode one thousand and twenty four channel .
that that math check out .
what wa the first time you were able to move a mouse cursor ?
i know it must have been within the first maybe week a week or two week that i wa able to first move the cursor .
and again it made sense to me .
it did not seem that big of a deal .
it wa how do i explain this ?
when everyone around you start clapping for something that youve done it is easy to say i did something cool .
that wa impressive in some way .
what exactly that meant what it wa hadnt set in for me .
again i knew that me trying to move a body part and then that being mapped in some machine learning algorithm to be able to identify my brain signal and then take that and give me cursor control .
that all made sense to me .
i do not know all the in and out of it .
but i wa there are still signal in my brain firing .
they can not get through because there a gap in my spinal cord .
and they they can not get all the way down and back up but they are still there .
when i moved the cursor for the first time i wa thats cool but i expected that that should happen .
when i moved the cursor for the first time with my mind without physically trying to move .
i guess i can get into that a little bit the difference between attempt and movement and imagine movement .
yeah thats a fascinating difference .
big for one to the other .
attempted movement is me physically trying to attempt to move say my hand .
i try to attempt to move my hand to the to the left forward and back .
and thats all attempted attempt to lift my finger up and down attempt to kick or something .
i am physically trying to do all of those thing even if you can not see it .
i am this would be me attempting to shrug my shoulder or something .
thats all attempted movement .
that all thats what i wa doing for the first couple of week when they were going to give me cursor control .
when i wa doing body mapping it wa attempt to do this attempt to do that .
when nir wa telling me to imagine doing it it made sense to me but it is not something that people practice .
if you started school a a child and they said write your name with this pencil .
and you do that .
now imagine writing your name with that pencil .
kid would think i guess that make sense .
and they would do it .
but thats not something we are taught .
it is all how to do thing physically .
we think about thought experiment and thing but thats not thats not a physical action of doing thing .
it is more what you would do in certain situation .
imagine movement it never connected with me .
i guess you could maybe describe it a a professional athlete swinging a baseball bat or swinging a golf club imagine what you are supposed to do .
but then you go to that and physically do it .
you then you get a bat in your hand and then you do what youve been imagining .
and i do not have that connection .
telling me to imagine something versus attempting it it there wasnt a lot that i could do there mentally .
i had to accept what wa going on and try .
but the attempt to move and thing it all made sense to me .
if i try to move then there a signal being sent in my brain .
and a long a they can pick that up then they should be able to map it to what i am trying to do .
and when i first moved the cursor that it wa it wa yes this should happen .
i am not surprised by that .
but can you clarify is there supposed to be a difference between imagine movement and attempted movement ?
yeah that in imagine movement you are not attempting to move at all .
it is you are visualizing and then theoretically is that supposed to be a different part of the brain that light up in those two different situation ?
yeah not necessarily .
i think all these signal can still be represented in motor cortex .
but the difference i think ha to do with the naturalness of imagining something inverse attempting it and the fatigue of that over time .
and by the way on the mic is bliss .
this is different way to prompt you to get to the thing that you are around at .
attempted movement doe sound the thing .
because imagine for me i would start visualizing .
in my mind visualizing attempted i would start trying to there a i i did combat sport my whole life wrestling when i am imagining a move see i am moving my muscle .
there a there is a bit of an activation almost versus visualizing yourself a picture doing it .
yeah it is something that i feel naturally anyone would do .
if you try to tell someone to imagine doing something they might close their eye and then start physically doing it .
but it is it did not click .
it is it is hard .
it wa very hard at the beginning .
but attempted worked .
attempted worked .
it worked it should work work a charm .
remember there wa one tuesday we were messing around and i think i forget what swear word you used but there a swear word that came out of your mouth when you figured out you could do the direct cursor control .
thats it .
it blew my mind no pun intended .
blew my mind when i first moved the cursor with my thought and not attempting to move .
it is something that i found over the couple of week building up to that that a i get better cursor control the model get better then it get easier for me to i do not have to attempt a much to move it .
and part of that is something that id even talked with them about when i wa watching the signal of my brain one day .
i wa watching when i attempted to move to the and i watched the screen a i saw the spike .
i wa seeing the spike the signal being sent before i wa attempting to move .
i imagine because when you go to say move your hand or any body part that signal get sent before you are moving ha to make it all the way down and back up before you do any movement .
there a delay there .
and i noticed that there wa something going on in my brain before i wa attempting to move that my brain wa anticipating what i wanted to do .
and that all started i do not know percolating in my brain .
it it wa there always in the back thats weird that it could do that .
but i wonder what that mean a far a using the neural link .
and i looked over and the cursor shot over .
i had to take a step back .
i wa this should not be happening all day .
i wa guy do that this work ?
i can think it and it happens which theyd all been saying this entire time i can not believe you are doing all this with your mind .
i am yeah but is it with my mind ?
i am attempting to move and it is picking that up .
it doesnt feel it is with my mind .
but when i moved it for the first time that it wa man it it made me think that this technology that what i am doing is way way more impressive than i ever thought .
it wa way cooler than i ever thought .
and it opened up a whole new world of possibility of what could possibly happen with this technology and what i might be able to be capable of with it .
because you had felt for the first time this wa digital telepathy you are controlling a digital device with your mind .
thats a real moment of discovery .
thats cool .
youve discovered something .
ive seen scientist talk about a big aha moment nobel prize winning .
theyll have this holy crap .
thats what it felt .
i did not feel i felt i had discovered something but for me maybe not necessarily for the world at large or this field at large it felt an aha moment for me .
this work .
obviously it work .
and thats what i do all the time now .
i intermix the attempted movement and imagine movement .
i do it all together because i found that there is some interplay with it that maximizes efficiency with the cursor .
it is not all one or the other .
it is not all i only use attempted or i only use imagine movement .
it is more i use them in parallel .
and i can do one or the other .
i can completely think about whatever i am doing .
but i do not know .
i to play around with it .
i also to experiment with these thing .
every now and again ill get this idea in my head i wonder if this work .
and ill start doing it .
and then afterwards ill tell them by the way i wasnt doing that you guy wanted me to .
i wa i thought of something and i wanted to try it .
maybe we should explore that a little bit .
i think that discovery is not for you at least from my perspective thats a discovery for everyone else who ever us a new link that this is possible .
i do not think thats an obvious thing that this is even possible .
it is i wa saying to bliss earlier it is the four minute mile .
people thought it wa impossible to run a mile in four minute .
and once the first person did it then everyone started doing it .
to show that it is possible that pave the way to anyone can not do it .
thats the thing thats possible .
you do not need to do the attempted movement .
thats crazy .
that is crazy .
for people who do not know can you explain how the link app work ?
you have an amazing stream on the topic .
your first stream i think on x describing the app .
can you describe how it work ?
it is an app that nerlink created to help me interact with the computer .
on the link app there are a few different setting and different mode and thing i can do on it .
there the body mapping which we touched on .
there a calibration .
calibration is how i get cursor control .
calibrating whats going on in my brain to translate that into cursor control .
it will pop out model .
what they use i think is time .
it would be five minute and calibration will give me good of a model .
and then if i am in it for ten minute and fifteen minute the model will progressively get better .
and the longer i am in it generally the better the model will get .
thats cool because you often refer to the model .
the model is the thing thats constructed once you go through the calibration step .
and then you also talk about sometimes youll play a difficult game snake to see how good the model is .
snake is my litmus test for model .
if i can control snake decently then i know i have a pretty good model .
yeah the link app ha all of those a web grid in it now .
it is also how i connect to the computer in general .
theyve given me a lot of voice control with it at this point .
i can say connect or implant disconnect .
and a long a i have that charger handy then i can connect to it .
the charger is also how i connect to the link app to connect to the computer .
i have to have the implant charger over my head when i want to connect to have it wake up because the implant in hibernation mode always when i am not using it .
i think there a setting to wake it up every long .
we could set it to half an hour or five hour or something if i want it to wake up periodically .
yeah ill connect to the link app and then go through all sort of thing calibration for the day maybe body mapping .
ive made them give me a little homework tab because i am very forgetful and i forget to do thing a lot .
i have a lot of data collection thing that they want me to do .
is the body mapping part of the data collection ?
or is that also part of the collection ?
yeah it is .
it is something that they want me to do daily which ive been slacking on because ive been doing much medium and traveling much .
ive been super famous .
yeah ive been a terrible first candidate for how much ive been slacking on my homework .
but yeah it is something that they want me to do every day to track how the neuralink is performing over time and have something to give .
i imagine to give to the fda to create all sort of fancy chart and stuff and show hey this is what the neuralink this is how it is performing day one versus day ninety versus day one hundred and eighty and thing that .
whats the calibration step ?
is it move left move ?
it is a bubble game .
there will be yellow bubble that pop up on the screen .
at first it is open loop .
open loop this is something that i still do not fully understand the open loop and closed loop thing .
blitz talked for a long time about the difference between the two on the technical side. . itd be great to hear your side of the story .
open loop is i have no control over the cursor .
the cursor will be moving on it own across the screen and i am following by intention the cursor to different bubble .
and then my the algorithm is training off of what the signal it is getting are a i am doing this .
there are a couple of different way that theyve done it .
they call it center out target .
there will be a bubble in the middle and then eight bubble around that .
and the cursor will go from the middle to one side .
say middle to left back to middle to up to middle upright .
and theyll do that all the way around the circle .
and i will follow that cursor the whole time .
and then it will train off of my intention what it is expecting my intention to be throughout the whole process .
can you speak to when you say follow ?
you do not mean with your eye .
you mean with your intention .
generally for calibration i am doing attempted movement because i think it work better .
i think the better model a i progress through calibration make it easier to use imagined movement .
calibrated on attempted movement will create a model that make it effective for you to then use the force .
ive tried doing calibration with imagined movement .
and it doesnt work a for some reason .
that wa the center out target .
there also one where a random target will pop up on the screen and it is the same .
i follow along with wherever the cursor is to that target all across the screen .
ive tried those with imagined movement .
and for some reason the model do not they do not give a high level quality when we get into closed loop .
i havent played around with it a ton .
maybe the different way that we are doing calibration now might make it a bit better .
but what ive found is there will be a point in calibration where i can use imagined movement before that point .
if i do calibration for forty five minute the first fifteen minute i can not use imagined movement .
it doesnt work for some reason .
and after a certain point i can feel it .
thats the best way i can i can describe it .
it is almost a if it is anticipating what i am going to do again before i go to do it .
and using attempted movement for fifteen minute at some point i can tell when i move my eye to the next target that the cursor is starting to pick up it is starting to understand it is learning what i am going to do .
first of all it is cool that you are a true pioneer in all of this .
you are exploring how to do every aspect of this most effectively .
and there i imagine many lesson learned from this .
thank you for being a pioneer and all these kind of different super technical way .
and it is also cool to hear that there a different feeling to the experience when it is calibrated in different way .
because i imagine your brain is doing something different .
and thats why there a different feeling to it .
and then trying to find the word and the measurement to those feeling would be also interesting .
but at the end of the day you can also measure that your actual performance on whether it is snake or web grid you can see what work .
and you are saying for the open loop calibration the attempted movement work best for now .
the open loop you do not get the feedback thats something that you did something .
weve done it with a cursor and without a cursor in open loop .
sometimes it is say for the center out youll start calibration with a bubble lighting up .
and i push towards that bubble .
and then when that bubble when it is pushed towards that bubble for say three second a bubble will pop .
and then i come back to the middle .
i am doing it all by my intention thats what it is learning anyway .
it make sense that a long a i follow what they want me to do follow the yellow brick road that itll all work out .
your full great reference .
is the bubble game fun ?
yeah they always feel bad making me do calibration we are about to do a forty minute calibration .
i am all would you guy want to do two of them ?
i am always asking to whatever they need i am more than happy to do .
and it is not it is not bad .
it is not bad at all .
i do not score that you get can you do better on the bubble game ?
no i would love that .
i would love writing down suggestion from nolan make it more fun gamified .
yeah thats one thing that i enjoy about webgrid is because i am competitive .
the higher the bps the higher the score i know the better i am doing .
and if i think ive asked at one point one of the guy if he could give me some numerical feedback for calibration i would to know what they are looking at .
it is we see this number while you are doing calibration and that mean at least on our end that we think calibration is going .
and i would love that because i would to know if what i am doing is going or not .
but then theyve also told me yeah not necessarily one to one it doesnt mean that calibration is going in some way .
it is not one hundred .
and they do not want to skew what i am experiencing or want me to change thing based on that if that number is not always accurate to how the model will turn out or how the end result thats at least what i got from it .
one thing i do i have asked them in something that i enjoy striving for is towards the end of calibration there is a time between target .
and i to keep at the end that number is low a possible .
there you go .
thats the way to get a score on the calibration the speed how quickly you can get from bubble to bubble .
there the open loop and then it go to the closed loop .
and the closed loop can already start giving you a sense because you are getting feedback of how good the model is .
closed loop is when i first get cursor control and how theyve described it to me someone who doe not understand this stuff .
i am the dumbest person in the room every time i am with any of these guy .
is that i am closing the loop .
i am now the one that is finishing the loop of whatever this loop is .
i do not even know what the loop is .
theyve never told me .
they say there is a loop and at one point it is open and i can not control and then i get control and it is closed .
i am finishing the loop .
how long the calibration usually take ?
you say ten fifteen minute .
yeah they are trying to get that number down pretty low .
thats what weve been working on a lot recently is getting that down a low a possible .
that way if this is something that people need to do on a daily basis or if some people need to do on a every other day basis or once a week they do not want people to be sitting in calibration for long period of time .
i think they wanted to get it down seven minute or below at least where we are at now .
itd be nice if they you never had to do calibration .
well get there at some point i am sure .
the more we learn about the brain and i think thats the dream .
i think now for me to get good model i am in calibration forty or forty five minute .
and i do not mind i said they always feel bad .
but if it is going to get me a model that can break these record on webgrid ill stay in it for flip in two hour .
webgrid i saw a presentation that where bliss said by march you selected eighty ninezero target in webgrid .
can you explain this game ?
what is webgrid ?
and what doe it take to be a worldclass performer in webgrid a you continue to break world record ?
it is a gold medalist .
yeah id to thank everyone who helped me get here my coach my parent for driving me to practice every day at five in the morning .
id to thank god and overall my dedication to my craft .
the interview with athlete are always that exact .
it is that template .
it is a grid .
they can make it a big or small a you can make a grid .
a single box on that grid will light up and you go and click it .
and it is a way for them to benchmark how good a bci is .
it is pretty straightforward .
you click target .
only one blue cell appears and you are supposed to move the mouse to there and click on it .
i playing on bigger grid because the bigger the grid the more bps it is bit per second that you get every time you click one .
ill say ill play on a thirty five by thirty five grid and then one of those little square a cell and call it target whatever will light up and you move the cursor there and you click it and then you do that forever .
and youve been able to achieve at first eight bit per second and you recently broke that .
yeah i am at eight.five now .
i would have beaten that the day before i came to austin but i had a i do not know a five second lag at the end .
and i had to wait until the latency calmed down and then i kept clicking but i wa at eight.one and then five second of lag .
and then the next three target i clicked all stayed at eight.one .
if i would have been able to click during that time of lag i probably would have hit i do not know i might have hit nine .
i am there .
and then this whole austin trip ha gotten in the way of my web grid playing ability .
thats all you are thinking about now .
yeah i know .
i want to hit nine .
i think i know nine is very very achievable .
i am there .
i think ten i could hit maybe in the next month .
i could do it probably in the next few week if i push .
i think you and ilana the same person .
cause last time i did a podcast with him he came in extremely frustrated that he can not beat uber lilith a a droid .
that wa a year ago i think .
i forget solo and i could tell there some percentage of his brain the entire time wa thinking i wish i wa now attempting .
i think he did it that night .
he stayed up and did it that night .
it is crazy to me .
it is in a fundamental way .
and what you are doing is inspiring in that way because it is not about the game .
everything you are doing there ha impact .
by striving to do on webgrid you are helping everybody figure out how to create the system all along .
the decoding the software the hardware the calibration all of it how to make all of that work you can do everything else .
yeah it is fun .
thats also thats part of the thing is making it fun .
yeah it is addicting .
ive joked about what they did when they went in and put this thing in my brain .
they must have flipped a switch to make me more susceptible to these kind of game to make me addicted to webgrid or something .
do bliss high score ?
yeah he said fourteen or something .
seventeen.one or something ?
he told me he doe it on the floor with peanut butter and he fast .
that sound cheating .
sound performance enhancing .
no one the first time no one played this game he asked how could it be at this game ?
and i think you told me then you are gon na try to beat me .
i am gon na get there someday .
i think i can .
i am excited for that .
yeah ive been playing first off with the dwell cursor which hamper my webgrid playing ability .
i have to wait zero.three second for every click .
you can not do the click .
you have to click by dwelling .
you said zero.three ?
zero.three second which suck .
it slows down how high i am able to get .
i still hit fifty i think i hit fifty something trial net trial per minute in that which wa pretty good .
because i am able to there one of the setting is also how slow you need to be moving in order to initiate a click to start a click .
i can tell when i am on that threshold to start initiating a click a bit early .
i am not fully stopped over the target when i go to click .
i am doing it on my way to the target a little to try to time it .
you are slowing down .
yeah a hair before the target .
this is a lead performance. . but that still it suck that there a ceiling of the zero.three .
i can get down to zero.two and zero.one .
zero.one yeah and ive played with that a little bit too .
i have to adjust a ton of different parameter in order to play with zero.one .
and i do not have control over all that on my end yet .
it also change how the model are trained .
if i do that with zero.three versus zero.one the model come out different .
the way that they interact is much much different .
i have to be careful .
i found that doing it with zero.three is better in some way unless i can do it with zero.one and change all of the different parameter then thats more ideal because obviously zero.three is faster than zero.one .
i could i could get there .
i can get there .
can you click using your brain ?
for now it is the hover clicking with the dwell cursor .
before all the thread retraction stuff happened we were calibrating click left click click .
that wa my previous ceiling before i broke the record again with the dwell cursor wa i think on a thirty five by thirty five grid with left and click .
and you get more bps more bit per second using multiple click because it is more difficult .
because what is it ?
you are supposed to do either a left click or a click .
yes different color .
yeah blue target for left click orange target for click is what they had done .
my previous record of seven.five wa with the blue and the orange target yeah .
which i think if i went back to that now doing the click calibration i would be able to and being able to initiate click on my own i think i would break that ten ceiling in a couple of day .
yeah you would start making blizznerus about his seventeen .
why do you think we havent given him the exactly ?
what did it feel with the retraction that there is some of the thread are attracted ?
that sucked .
the day they told me wa the day of my big neural link tour at their fremont facility .
they told me before we went over there it wa hard to hear .
my initial reaction wa all go in fix it go in take it out and fix it .
the first surgery wa easy .
i went to sleep a couple of hour later i woke up and here we are .
i did not feel any pain did not take any pain pill or anything .
i knew that if they wanted to they could go in and put in a new one next day if thats what it took .
because i wanted it to be better and i wanted not to lose the capability .
i had much fun playing with it for a few week for a month .
i had it opened up many door for me and it opened up many more possibility that i did not want to lose it after a month .
i thought it would have been a cruel twist of fate if i had gotten to see the view from the top of this mountain and then have it all come crashing down after a month .
i knew say the top of the mountain but how i saw it wa i wa now starting to climb the mountain .
there wa much more that i knew wa possible .
to have all of that be taken away wa hard .
but then on the drive over to the facility i do not know five minute drive whatever it is i talked with my parent about it .
i prayed about it .
i wa i am not going to let this ruin my day .
i am not going to let this ruin this amazing tour that they have set up for me .
i want to go show everyone how much i appreciate all the work they are doing .
i want to go meet all of the people who have made this possible and i want to go have one of the best day of my life .
i did and it wa amazing and it absolutely wa one of the best day ive ever been privileged to experience .
then for a few day i wa pretty down in the dump .
but for the first few day afterwards i did not know if it wa ever going to work again .
then i made the decision that it even if i lost the ability to use the narrow link even if i lost out on everything to come if i could keep giving them data in any way then i would do that .
if i needed to do some of the data collection every day or body mapping every day for a year then i would do it because i know that everything i am doing help everyone to come after me and thats all i wanted .
the whole reason that i did this wa to help people and i knew that anything i could do to help i would continue to do even if i never got to use the cursor again .
then i wa happy to be a part of it and everything that id done wa a perk .
it wa something that i got to experience and i know how amazing it is going to be for everyone to come after me .
might a keep trucking along .
that said you were able to get to work your way up to get the performance back .
this is going from rocky one to rocky two .
when did you first realize that this is possible and what gave you the strength the motivation the determination to do it to increase back up and beat your previous record ?
yeah it wa within a couple of week .
again this feel i am interviewing an athlete .
this is great .
i to thank my parent .
the road back wa long and hard .
for many difficulty there were dark day .
it wa a couple of week i think and then there wa a turning point .
i think they had switched how they were measuring the neuron spike in my brain the bliss helped me out .
yeah the way in which we were measuring the behavior of individual neuron .
we were switching from individual spike detection to something called spike band power which if you watch the previous segment with either me or dj you probably have some concept .
when they did that it wa a light over the head light bulb moment this work and this seems we can run with this .
and i saw the uptick in performance immediately .
i could feel it when they switched over .
i wa this is better .
this is good .
everything up till this point for the last few week last whatever three or four week because it wa before they even told me everything before this sucked .
and at that point it wa not i know i am still only at say in web grid term four or five bps compared to my seven.five before .
but i know that if we keep doing this then i can i can get back there .
and then they gave me the dwell cursor and the dwell cursor sucked at first .
it is not obviously not what i want .
but it gave me a path forward to be able to continue using it and hopefully to continue to help out .
and i ran with it never looked back .
i roll with the punch anyway .
what wa the process ?
what wa the feedback loop on the figuring out how to do the spike detection in a way that would work for nolan ?
yeah it is a great question .
maybe describe first how the actual update worked .
it wa an update to your implant .
we did an over the air software update to his implant .
and that firmware changed enabled u to record average of population of neuron nearby individual electrode .
we have le resolution about which individual neuron is doing what but we have a broader picture of whats going on nearby an electrode overall .
and that feedback a nolan described it wa immediate when we flip that switch .
i think the first day we did that you hit three or four bps out of the box .
and that wa a light bulb moment for this is the path to go down .
and from there there a lot of feedback around how to make this useful for independent use .
what we care about ultimately is that you can use it independently to do whatever you want .
and to get to that point it required u to re engineer the ux a you talked about the dwell cursor to make it something that you can use independently without u needing to be involved all the time .
and yeah this is obviously the start of this journey still hopefully we get back to the place where you are doing multiple click and using that to control much more fluidly everything and much more naturally the application that you are trying to interface with .
and most importantly get that web grid number up .
how is the on the hover click do accidentally click self sometimes ?
whats how hard is it to avoid accidentally clicking ?
i have to continuously keep it moving .
i said there a threshold where it will initiate a click .
if i ever drop below that itll start and i have zero.three second to move it before it click anything .
and if i do not want it to ever get there i keep it moving at a certain speed and constantly doing circle on screen moving it back and forth to keep it from clicking stuff .
i have to avoid the clicking .
i guess doe that create problem when you are gaming accidentally click a thing ?
yeah yeah it happens in chess .
ive lost a number of game because ill accidentally click something .
i think the first time i ever beat you wa because of an accident .
yeah miss click .
it is a nice excuse ?
yeah you can always anytime you lose you could say it wa accidental .
you said the app improved a lot from version one when you first started using it .
it wa very different .
can you talk about the trial and error that you went through with the team ?
two hundred plus page of note ?
whats that process of going back and forth and working together to improve the thing ?
it is a lot of me using it day in and day out and saying hey can you guy do this for me ?
give me this .
i want to be able to do that .
i need this .
i think a lot of it doesnt occur to them maybe until someone is using the app using the implant .
it is something that they never would have thought of or it is very specific to even me maybe what i want .
thats a dumb idea .
why would he ask for that ?
and i am looking forward to get the next people on because i guarantee that they are going to think of thing that ive never thought of .
they are going to think of improvement .
i am wow thats a good idea .
i wish i would have thought of that .
and then they are also going to give me some pushback about yeah what you are asking them to do here .
thats a bad idea .
let do it this way .
and i am more than happy to have that happen .
but it is a lot of different interaction with different game or application the internet with the computer in general there ton of bug that end up popping up left center .
it is me trying to use it a much a possible and showing them what work and what doesnt work and what i would to be better .
and then they take that feedback and they usually create amazing thing for me .
they solve these problem in way i would have never imagined .
they are good at everything they do .
and i am thankful that i am able to give them feedback and they can make something of it .
because a lot of my feedback is dumb .
it is i want this please do something about it .
and well come back super thought out .
and it is way better than anything i could have ever thought of or implemented myself .
they are great .
they are cool .
a the bci community grows would you to hang out with the other folk with neural link ?
what relationship of any would you want to have with them ?
because you said they might have a different set of idea of how to use the thing .
would you be intimidated by their webgrade performance ?
i hope day one they wipe the floor with me .
i hope they beat it .
and they crush it double it if they can .
because on one hand it is only going to push me to be better .
i want other people to push me .
i think that is important for anyone trying to achieve greatness is they need other people around them who are going to push them to be better .
and i even made a joke about it on x once once the next people get chosen q buddy cop music i am excited to have other people to do this with and to share experience with .
i am more than happy to interact with them a much a they want more than happy to give them advice .
i do not know what advice i could give them .
but if they have question i am more than happy .
what advice would you have for the next participant in the clinical trial ?
that they should have fun with this because it is a lot of fun .
and that i hope they work hard because it is not for u . it is for everyone that come after u . and come to me if they need anything and to go to the neuralink if they need anything .
they do absolutely anything for me that they can .
and it is an amazing support system to have .
it put my mind at ease for many thing that i have had question about many thing i want to do .
and they are always there .
and thats nice .
and i i would tell them not to be afraid to go to neuralink with any question that they have any concern anything that they are looking to do with this and any help that neuralink is capable of providing .
i know they will .
and i do not know .
work your as off because it is important that we try to give our all to this .
have fun and work hard .
there we go .
maybe thats what ill start saying to people .
have fun work hard .
now you are a real pro athlete .
maybe it is good to talk about what youve been able to do now that you have a neuralink implant the freedom you gain from this way of interacting with the outside world .
you play video game all night and you do that by yourself .
and thats a freedom .
can you speak to that freedom that you gain ?
yeah it is what all i do not know .
people in my position want .
they want more independence .
the more load that i can take away from people around me the better .
if i am able to interact with the world without using my family without going through any of my friend needing them to help me with thing the better .
it take a load off of all of u . and it is all i can ask for .
it is something that i could never think nearly enough for .
i know my family feel the same way .
being able to have the freedom to do thing on my own at any hour of the day or night it mean the world to me .
when you are up at two a.m. playing webgrid by yourself i imagine it is darkness and then you are a light glowing and you are focused .
whats going through your mind ?
are you in a state of flow where the mind is empty those zen master ?
generally it is me playing music of some sort .
i have a massive playlist and i am rocking out to music .
and then it is also a race against time because i am constantly looking at how much battery percentage i have left on my implant .
i have thirty which equates to x amount of time which mean i have to break this record in the next hour and a half or else it is not happening tonight .
and it is a little stressful when that happens .
when it is above fifty i am i got time .
it start getting down to thirty and then twenty .
it is all ten a little popup is going to pop up here and it is going to screw my webgrid flow .
it is going to tell me that there a low battery popup come up and i am it is going to screw me over .
if i am going to break this record i have to do it in the next thirty second or else that popup is going to get in the way cover my webgrid .
and then after that i go click on it go back into webgrid and i am all that mean i have ten minute left before this thing dead .
thats whats going on in my head generally that in whatever song is playing .
and i want to break those record bad .
it is all i want when i am playing webgrid .
it ha become le of this is a leisurely activity .
i enjoy doing this because it feel nice and it put me at ease .
once i am in webgrid you better break this record or you are going to waste five hour of your life now .
and i do not know it is fun .
it is fun man .
have you ever tried webgrid with two target and three target ?
can you get higher bps with that ?
can you do that ?
you mean different color target ?
or you mean ?
ha that changed the thing ?
bps is a log of number of target time correct minus incorrect divided by time .
and you can think of different click a double the number of active target .
you higher bps the more option there are the more difficult the task .
and there also zen mode youve played in before which is infinite canvas .
it cover the whole screen with a grid and i do not know .
and you can go thats insane .
he doesnt it because it did not show bps .
i had them put in a giant bps in the background .
now it is the opposite of zen mode .
it is it is super hard mode metal mode of it a giant number in the back count .
we should name that metal mode is not much better .
you also play civilization six .
usually go with korea .
the great part about korea is they focus on science tech victory which wa not planned .
ive been playing korea for year and then all of the nerling stuff happened .
and if you want to win a domination victory you get to a certain point with the science and then go and wipe out the rest of the world .
or you can take science all the way and win that way .
and you are going to be far ahead of everyone because you are producing much science that it is not even close .
ive accidentally won in different way by focusing on science .
i wa playing only science obviously science all the way tech .
and i wa trying to get every tech in the tech tree and stuff .
and then i accidentally won through a diplomatic victory and i wa mad .
i wa mad because it end the game one turn and it wa you won .
i am i do not want to do this .
i should have declared war on more people or something .
it wa terrible .
but you do not need giant civilization with tech especially with korea .
you can keep it pretty small .
i generally get to a certain military unit and put them all around my border to keep everyone out .
and then i will build up .
very isolationist .
work on the science .
thats it .
you are making it sound fun .
it is much fun .
and i also saw a civilization seven trailer .
and thats probably coming out .
come on sim7 .
ill alpha beta test whatever .
wait when is it coming out ?
two thousand and twenty five .
yeah yeah next year .
what other stuff would you to see improved about the new orleans cap and the entire experience ?
i would to i said get back to the click on demand the regular click .
that would be great .
i would to be able to connect to more device .
now it is the computer .
id to be able to use it on my phone or use it on different console different platform .
id to be able to control a much stuff a possible honestly .
an optimus robot would be pretty cool .
that would be sick if i could control an optimus robot .
the link app itself it seems we are getting pretty dialed in to what it might look down the road .
seems weve gotten through a lot of what i want from it at least .
the only other thing i would say is more control over all the parameter that i can tweak with my cursor and stuff .
there a lot of thing that go into how the cursor move in certain way .
i have i do not know three or four of those parameter .
gain and friction and all that .
gain friction yeah .
there maybe double the amount of those with velocity and then with the actual dwell cursor .
i would all of it .
i want a much control over my environment a possible especially .
you want advanced mode .
there menu usually in this basic mode and you are one of those folk the power user advanced .
thats what i want .
i want a much control over this a possible .
thats all i can ask for .
give me everything .
being able to talk also in addition to everything else ?
you mean while i am using it ?
while you are using it speech to text ?
or do you type or look because there also a keyboard ?
there a virtual keyboard .
thats another thing i would to work more on is finding some way to type or text in a different way .
now it is a dictation and a virtual keyboard that i can use with the cursor .
but weve played around with finger spelling sign language finger spelling .
and that seems promising .
i have this thought in my head that it is going to be a very similar learning curve that i had with the cursor where i went from attempted movement to imagined movement at one point .
i have a feeling this is my intuition that at some point i am going to be doing finger spelling and i will not need to attempt to finger spell anymore that ill be able to think the letter that i want and itll pop up .
that would be epic .
thats challenging .
thats hard .
thats a lot of work for you to take that leap .
that would be awesome .
and then going from letter to word is another step you would go from now it is finger spelling of the sign language alphabet .
but if it is able to pick that up then it should be able to pick up the whole sign language language .
and then if i could do something along those line or the sign language spelled word if i can spell it at a reasonable speed and it can pick that up then i would be able to think that through and it would do the same thing .
i do not see why not after what i saw with the cursor control .
i do not see why it wouldnt work but wed have to play around with it more .
what wa the process in term of training yourself to go from attempted movement to imagine movement ?
how long doe that take ?
how long would this process take ?
it wa a couple week before it happened upon me .
but now that i know that that wa possible i think i could make it happen with other thing .
i think it would be much much simpler .
would you get an upgraded implant device ?
sure absolutely .
whenever theyll let me .
you do not have any concern for you with the surgery experience ?
all of it wa no regret ?
everythings been good far ?
why not ?
ive seen how much it is impacted my life already .
and i know that everything from here on out is going to get better and better .
i would love to get the upgrade .
what future capability are you excited about ?
beyond this telepathy ?
is vision interesting ?
for folk who for example who are blind enabling people to see or for speech ?
yeah there a lot thats very very cool about this .
we are talking about the brain .
there this is motor cortex stuff .
there much more that can be done .
the vision one is fascinating to me .
i think that is going to be very very cool to give someone the ability to see for the first time in their life would be it might be more amazing than even helping someone me .
that sound incredible .
the speech thing is interesting being able to have some real time translation and cut away that language barrier would be cool .
any actual impairment that it could solve with speech would be very very cool .
and then also there are a lot of different disability that all originate in the brain .
and you would be able to hopefully be able to solve a lot of those .
i know there already stuff to help people with seizure that can be implanted in the brain .
this would do i imagine the same thing .
and you could do something that .
i know that even someone joe rogan ha talked about the possibility with being able to stimulate the brain in different way .
i am not sure what how ethical a lot of that would be .
thats beyond me honestly .
but i know that there a lot that can be done when we are talking about the brain and being able to go in and physically make change to help people or to improve their life .
i am looking forward to everything that come from this .
and i do not think it is all that far off .
i think a lot of this can be implemented within my lifetime assuming that i live a long life .
what you were referring to is thing people suffering from depression or thing of that nature potentially getting help .
flip a switch that make someone happy .
i know i think joe ha talked about it more in term of you want to experience what a drug trip feel .
you want to experience what you to be on .
of course .
yeah mushroom or something that .
dmt you can flip that switch in the brain .
my buddy bain ha talked about being able to wipe part of your memory and reexperience thing that for the first time your favorite movie or your favorite book wipe that out real quick and then refall in love with harry potter or something .
i told him i wa i do not know how i feel about people being able to wipe part of your memory .
that seems a little sketchy to me .
he they are already doing it .
sound legit .
i would love memory replay high resolution replay of old memory .
i saw an episode of black mirror about that once .
i do not think i want it .
black mirror always considers the worst case which is important .
i think people do not consider the best case or the average case enough .
i do not know what it is about u human .
we want to think about the worst possible thing .
it is how is this new technology going to kill everybody ?
we love that .
we are getting yes let watch .
hopefully people do not think about that too much with me .
itll ruin a lot of my plan .
i assume you are going to have to take over the world .
i love your twitter .
you tweeted id to make joke about hearing voice in my head since getting the neuralink but i feel people would take it the wrong way .
plus the voice in my head told me not to .
please never stop .
you were talking about optimus .
is that something you would love to be able to do to control the robotic arm of the entirety of optimus ?
yeah for sure .
you think there something fundamentally different about being able to physically interact with the world ?
i know another thing with being able to give people the ability to feel sensation and stuff too by going in with the brain and having the neuralink maybe do that .
that could be something that could be translated through transferred through the optimus a . there all sort of cool interplay between that .
and then also you said physically interacting .
ninety nine of the thing that i can not do myself obviously need i need a caretaker for someone to physically do thing for me .
if an optimus robot could do that i could live an incredibly independent life and not be such a burden on those around me .
and that would it would change the way people me live at least until whatever this is get cured .
but being able to interact with the world physically that would be amazing .
and they are not for having it be a caretaker or something but something i talked about being able to read a book .
imagine optimus robot being able to hold a book open in front of me get that smell again .
i might not be able to feel it at that point .
or maybe i could again with the sensation and stuff .
but there something different about reading a physical book than staring at a screen or listening to an audiobook .
ive listened to a ton of them at this point but i do not them .
i would much rather read a physical copy .
one of the thing you would love to be able to experience is opening the book bringing it up to you and to feel the touch of the paper .
man the touch the smell .
it is something about the word on the page .
theyve replicated that page color on the kindle and stuff .
yeah it is not the same .
something a simple a that .
one of the thing you miss is touch ?
a lot of thing that i interact with in the world clothes or any physical thing that i interact with in the world a lot of time what people around me will do is theyll come rub it on my face .
theyll lay something on me i can feel the weight .
they will rub a shirt on me i can feel fabric .
there something very profound about touch and it is something that i miss a lot and something i would love to do again .
what would be the first thing you do with the hand that can touch ?
you can mama hug after that yeah .
something along those line being able to interact with the people around me handshake give someone a hug anything that .
being able to help me eat id probably get fat which would be a terrible terrible thing .
also beat bliss and chess on a physical chessboard .
there are many upside .
any way to find some way to feel i am bringing bliss down to my level because he such an amazing guy and everything about him is above and beyond that anything i can do to take him down a notch .
he need it .
yeah. . a he sitting next to me .
did you ever make sense of why god put good people through such hardship ?
i think it is all about understanding how much we need god .
and i do not think that there any light without the dark .
i think that if all of u were happy all the time there would be no reason to turn to god ever .
i feel there would be no concept of good or bad .
and i think that a much of the darkness and the evil thats in the world it make u all appreciate the good and the thing we have much more .
and he said if anything seeing me go through this accident he belief that there is not a god .
and it is a very different reaction .
i think thats a huge part of being here is to not have an easy life and do everything thats easy but to step out of our comfort zone and challenge ourselves because i think thats how we grow .
what give you hope about this whole thing we have going on ?
human civilization ?
man i think people are my biggest inspiration even being at new orleans for a few month looking people in the eye and hearing their motivation for why they are doing this .
and i know that they could be other place at cushier job working somewhere else doing x y or z that doesnt mean that much .
but instead they are here and they want to better humanity and they want to better the people around them the people that theyve interacted with in their life .
they want to make better life for their own family member who might have disability or they look at someone me and they say i can do something about that .
and it is always been what ive connected with most in the world are people .
it give me a lot of hope for humanity in general how much we care and how much we are capable of when we all get together and try to make a difference .
and i know there a lot of bad out there in the world but there always ha been and there always will be .
and i think that that is it show human resiliency and it show what we are able to endure and how much .
how much we want to be there and help each other and how much satisfaction we get from that because i think thats one of the reason that we are here is to help each other .
and i do not know that that always give me hope is realizing that there are people out there who still care and who want to help .
and thank you for being one such human being and continuing to be a great human being through everything youve been through and being an inspiration to many people to myself for many reason including your epic unbelievably great performance on webgrid .
i will be training all night tonight to try to catch up .
and i believe in you that you can once you come back sorry to interrupt with the austin trip once you come back eventually beat bliss .
yeah yeah for sure .
i am rooting for you .
the whole world is rooting for you .
thank you for everything youve done .
thanks man .
thanks for listening to this conversation with nolan arbaugh and before that with elon musk dj saw matthew mcdougal and bliss chapman to support this podcast .
please check out our sponsor in the description .
and now let me leave you with some word from aldous huxley in the door of perception .
we live together .
we act on and react to one another .
but always and in all circumstance we are by ourselves .
the martyr go hand in hand into the arena .
they are crucified alone .
embrace the lover desperately tried to fuse their insulated ecstasy into a single self transcendence in vain .
but it is very nature .
every embodied spirit is doomed to suffer and enjoy it solitude .
sensation feeling insight fancy all these are private and accept through symbol and a second hand incommunicable .
we can pull information about experience but never the experience themselves from family to nation .
every human group is a society of island universe .
thank you for listening and hope to see you next time .
hello everybody and welcome to the latest episode of this week in science .
we are in the premoment of the show when i tell you all that hey we are about to do this thing .
thats a podcast broadcast .
and we are live now .
there will probably be little blip and blurb and mistake probably because i am here .
and when there are our wonderful editor rachel will edit them out for the podcast .
if you want the unedited or the unedited video version stay here wherever you are .
if you want the edited podcast version find u and subscribe to u this week in science wherever you find podcasts .
justin do you think you are ready to do a show ?
by the way sometimes ive never missed a show in episode .
but sometimes the podcast audience will not hear me .
thats because ive made many mistake in editing that they had to completely edit me out of the show .
what you are getting here though is the raw feed .
i hope because this one because claires not here tonight youll be the it would be me talking until the interview .
she wa terrible .
she had to be edited out even out of the raw broadcast of the show .
rachel that good .
she can do it in real time .
you ready to start ?
can i on that can i i am gon na one last side track .
i have i wrote a story a while ago that got shared a thousand time .
in the social medias .
that translated into almost four hundredzero view of one story .
every time you share you are not necessarily sharing it with one person or one group of people .
you can be generating hundred of additional view which is what the algorithm is looking for .
what wa the engagement factor of this ?
they are not looking for the searchable word in an audio podcast but they are gon na look at how many people saw this pop up in their feed somewhere and took a look at it .
it is a bigger deal than i think people realize when you put it out there repost a thing and share it out there .
it always help .
it always help .
it is time to start our show .
everybody are you ready for u to begin our show in three two this is twis .
this week in science episode number nine hundred and ninety one recorded on wednesday october 23rd two thousand and twenty four .
how much toilet water would you drink ?
i am dr. kiki and tonight on this week in science we are going to fill your head with ovary polar bear and polarized people but first ... disclaimer disclaimer disclaimer .
the following hour of programming contains science .
if you are allergic to science science ha a remedy .
if you think science is boring science will reveal it wonder .
if you do not know what science is science ha an answer .
if you are afraid of science science will protect you .
if you question science or skeptical about it science invite your curiosity .
if science seems confusing science can clarify .
if you think science is too complicated science can be super simplified .
if science feed your thirst for knowledge fuel your imagination and fill your brain with reasoned thinking youve come to the place because we have all of that and more here on this week in science coming up next .
with new discovery that happen every day of the week there only one place to go to find the knowledge i seek .
i want to know whats happening whats happening whats happening this week in science .
whats happening whats happening whats happening this week in science .
and a good science to you too justin and everyone out there .
unfortunately blair is not joining u this week for the show but well be talking about her polar bear .
yes they are her polar bear .
happy molday everyone .
it is .
ten to the 23rd ?
six.twenty two time ten to the 23rd .
what that number is ?
i am going to have to go back to theyve been adding a few people been claiming number .
now that it is a name generator out there .
intranged avocado number .
yeah i do not know .
there must be .
ai is taking over .
these little mistake the blip in space time in the fabric of our reality .
this is this week in science .
and thank you everyone for joining u for this episode .
we are glad that you are here and we have a great show ahead including an interview with pepperdine university professor dr. steve rouse on learning to love toilet water or at least to learn how to drink it without complaining .
we also have .
before we get into this too deeply i want everybody who had any visceral reaction to understand that all water that you encounter in this world wa at some point somebody else threw that water .
from fish to bacteria to any other organism that ha been on this planet .
that water ha passed through or been used a toilet water .
you think it did .
this concept is the it is not all new water .
are we having this conversation now ?
no we are going to wait for our guest to join u . before we get our shock factor too high up it is all toilet water .
it is toilet water all the way down .
i have story tonight about tasmanian tiger simulating social medium and the best human bias ever .
what do you have for u justin ?
my goodness .
i wrote down the thing that i brought .
what do i have ?
this is going to be fun .
realtime ovulation .
yeah i brought it .
i brought the ovulation .
you brought it .
thank you .
and then separate story .
dulas study on dulas found them massively improving health outcome .
it is a medicaid study which is going to be important because it recently got expanded .
and maybe a silver lining of global warming .
and we are without blair .
ive also got a few other thing that i pulled up that we may get to if time permit .
i would ask blair whats in the animal corner .
she wa going to talk about polar bear paw .
and maybe ill bring the story up without a much detail a she wa going to before the end of the show .
but now i want to let that if you are enjoying the show you do not have u already subscribed and everything .
if you want to do that find u a this week in science podcast wherever your favorite podcasts are found .
and we broadcast live weekly on youtube facebook and twitch wednesday eight p.m. pacific timeish .
but you can find all the information at our website twist.org .
time for the science .
this story i did bring because blair wa going to be here tonight .
and i figured it would be a fun little i do not know a little needle for both of you .
but weve been talking about deextinction for a long time on the show .
colossal the company thats been trying to restore the mammoth .
theyve also talked about deextincting the dodo .
and recently the thylacine .
and blair love the thylacine .
the thylacine is the tasmanian tiger .
or more accurately because it is not a tiger specie it is more closely related to wolf and dog the tasmanian wolf .
colossal ha been working with university of melbourne and researcher at in a lab there thats working on specifically marsupial specie run by a researcher named andrew pask .
and they announced several advancement not through publication not through peer review but in a south by southwest australia panel discussion this last week .
the timing interestingly coincides with the launch of their colossal foundation which is raising money for investment .
and that they say will be spent to rapidly deploy to help with extinction and research around the world .
it is an interesting thing .
it is science by press releaseish .
it is not this far hasnt been peer reviewed .
and we do hope that it will be peer reviewed .
but what they say theyve been doing is fascinating .
number one they have been working in this deextinction process on the genome of a related specie of marsupial that they are going to be using .
and they are starting to use to bring the tasmanian tiger back .
the researcher have been trying to work on this related specie and make sure see what the specific genetic difference are that they can genetically modify it and turn it into a tasmanian tiger .
and this specie is called the fattailed dunnert .
the fattailed dunnert is most closely related to the tasmanian tiger ha ninety nine or ninety nine.nine relatedness .
and the exciting part of what theyve been working on here is that they have developed new method to or they are developing new method to do genome editing at multiple point without massive amount of offtarget effect .
offtarget effect are the change in the genome that you do not want to be happening in place where they might have condition deletion these sort of thing .
and far in this in genetic modification whether crispr or any other methodology you do not usually have it happening in lot of place at the same time .
it is usually at very limited location and very highly controlled .
if this technology were to become applicable it might have influence and application in all sort of genetic modification for many different specie for reproductive purpose .
i am not pointing at my own head now .
one of the thing i do not know if i missurge you or want to clarify this is not related to canine specie at all .
it is a marsupial .
it is a marsupial .
it look a wolf .
it look a wolf .
but it is not related any more to a wolf than it would be to a tiger or a dolphin. ?
le closely .
because it is a young adult .
thats why i think it wa always fascinating .
because if you look at it you are thats a canine .
thats a dog or a wolf specie for sure .
and the reason i said the more ... it is a convergent type of an evolution .
but that make their job more difficult because you could use a wolf or a fox or some canine specie to infill if you are missing data or something this .
the woolly mammoth they are doing with the elephant .
our missing section of woolly mammoth dna .
we can use a close ... yeah .
let me move on from this because this is what theyve been doing because of the convergent similarity of these animal to the canid .
the jaw and skull morphology is similar in it length and breadth .
the thylacine craniofacial shape theyve been analyzing genetic segment that are related to how the face develops .
and they messed with the whole bunch of region of the genome and what they call thylacine wolf accelerated region .
and they predict that they will drive similarity between thylacine and wolf .
theyve tested them these gene segment on knockin experiment in mouse .
and they found the mouse skull moved in predicted way and confirmed the driver of head shape and the change that would happen there .
they are starting to put those genetic edits into the fat tailed dunnert embryo .
and then additionally they found a head in a jar at a museum of a thylacine head .
and it is grotesque in a preserved head but they could take tissue from the head and they sampled it .
we are able to get the most complete genome of a thylacine to date .
they are only missing a few segment in between bit and piece .
and they think that they can fill those in based on understanding of this relation between morphology and function .
and they think they can fit it in .
that said they also were able to get mrna messenger rna which is indicative of the bit of the genome which are being translated into protein within the head region .
they believe that they have marker telling them which protein were being turned on or were active before this individual in the jar died for the muscle for the eye for the brain that these little bit of instruction would have been relevant .
and that this is important for understanding how a living animal should be .
this is not to say that they are there yet .
this is not to say it is peer reviewed but there a whole bunch going .
they also want to put cane toad resistance gene into their thylacine remake because there too many cane toad in australia and they do not want to .
you are creating a food network web that eliminates an invasive specie .
thats very clever .
and that will probably then of course allow them to get tremendous funding .
yeah that they might save the quaka a . i find the convergent evolution genetic portion of this very fascinating .
it is one thing thats it is an evolutionary trait the long snout .
you can see it with tiger and lion .
if you compare the two that lion have a longer snout .
no tiger have a very short snout compared to the lion projected face .
now i need to look at picture .
and what the those difference are especially if you look through lot of specie different specie and where they exist tiger are very of the cat family have the longest .
they are also the most prominent plane hunter .
what theyve found is it ha to do with partly to do with the distance vision and having that snout .
how those two correlate to the evolutionary path but it tends to be open plane animal that are predator especially but have these longer snout versus more jungle or condensed area tends to have flatter face .
it ha to do with the long range vision .
and and that make it did not it did not occur to me at all that that you could potentially use convergent pathway that to control morphology .
it is very fascinating .
hopefully though if they have a head and a jar and they have a pretty decent genome that they might not need to to borrow for those trait but it is it is a very fascinating idea that you could have convergent dna not trait .
and i wa once again i wa incorrect .
i said quaca it is the qual cute little specie that i am very sad to be sharing is becoming endangered because of cane toad .
look at this cutie pie .
it can not it need to be able to protect itself from the cane toad .
it need to be able to eat toad .
the question is now doe the doe this company colossal they say they have they want to help save the specie that may go extinct ?
to help u if we can not change our way to protect and save specie that we cause to go extinct in the near future .
based on the thing that they find .
i wish that it were not a much of a company company colossal is but they have to make money .
it is an interesting it is an interest .
this is the interesting balancing point between science and industry or science and private or market .
and i am questioning .
and this is probably a wrong time to bring this up because you might be unfamiliar .
and then we are i do not know .
ha colossal done anything ?
i feel colossal ha been raising fund for two hundred and thirty five million dollar and some thirteen lab or something that around the world that they are collaborating with .
they have published a couple of study and they are working towards thing .
i do not know whether this ha already resulted in patent or any intellectual property that would be valuable at this point .
but that i think is what the concern is that they are not creating intellectual property that will be public domain if they are not publishing and not undergoing peer review .
i am following along and ill keep everyone posted to what i learned .
but i think it is very fascinating .
we are not going to get a tasmanian title .
i am very fascinated with the idea of using convergent evolution .
i also do not think of a word .
i also think yeah but you are talking about developmental trigger of growth and bone and thing it is i can see .
yeah but craniofacial morphology is different from we have convergent evolution to a similar shape and function .
and that is a they are seeing probably driven by very related gene .
there are certain gene that way back when became the driver of form .
and we know we know what a lot of them are how they are related and how they work specifically during development in various specie is the interesting question .
and then again this marsupial specie what are they going to do when the baby tasmanian tiger slash fat tail dunnart is ready to not be born yet but is a little marsupial baby who want to be in the pouch ?
do they have a marsupial pouch ?
what are they working on ?
this is good technology .
you want to show me what it is to ovulate ?
this is this story is a cool video on one on one level .
the other is this is from the max planck institute of multidisciplinary science .
they created a live imaging method that us my microscopy to do a time lapse .
they did a twenty four hour x vitro .
in a lab they grew mouse ovary .
and with this new technique that theyve designed they captured the process at ten minute interval over twenty four hour .
and it allowed them amazing amazing detail of information .
i do not know if you have the link there if you can pull up a video for the streaming audience to figure out .
but they also made tremendous discovery in this .
normally when you are doing these tissue study ovary are difficult to study .
they are hard to get at where they are .
and you have to have the timing exactly .
for the sorry for the ovulation .
it is a very quick process of releasing the egg .
and getting this live imaging instead of having sample that are in slice of time where you have captured an ovary in some stage of development and then you can study it at this point or at that point or of the egg .
you got to see the entire process .
it came in three phase .
it is beginning to be released from the skin tissue the follicle .
where is my i have to go and look for my yes .
it is there a follicle expansion then it contract rupture and then the egg is released .
and it manages to capture all of this .
i am guessing this wa they had egg in a dish probably donated .
and no these were these are mouse egg .
donated by mouse .
and these are transgenic mouse that they have the coloration they have marker that allow it to show up in the imaging .
but with this they were also able to compare it to level of different chemical release at different time point .
and that gave them an idea of what wa driving the process of ovulation .
and then they did knockout model of each of these chemical to confirm that they were a causal role .
and their knockout would prevent this that or the other from happening .
and they got a not a nice video they did answer a lot of question or confirm a lot of theory about how ovulation work .
a remarkable a remarkable study which is the core of this it is lab tech .
these image were captured using a combination of con focal and twophoton microscopy .
they did this live imaging over the twenty four hour plus they were also able to do chemical testing at the different stage because this is in a this is lab dish created they have access to these .
i think yeah the interesting thing is putting all the piece together to make this possible within the lab but then starting to get at what what question is this going to answer ?
and how is this going to advance maybe problem with ovulation when why do you get ovarian cyst ?
why do some why do some ovulation go bad ?
why do you release many egg sometimes ?
there many individual question that can go a little bit deeper into looking at the the various layer of data that theyve put together here .
and it give it give a causal chemical release hormone release interaction for each of the stage of the three stage that they they point out and then the actual rupture ha it own three stage built within that .
each one triggered by something .
and and knowing what all of the mechanism are then you can interrogate within a human model .
are we are we missing one of these ?
do we have a genetic variant that is preventing one of these release ?
yeah some part of this .
and because youve seen all of it in the time lapse process you what should be happening when and when it doesnt .
something that is almost impossible to do when you have a sample and say this look it is at that time point .
and we can study what seems to be going on at this time point .
now you have the full picture .
it is fascinating .
that is super cool .
more stuff .
i want more video of thing that usually happen inside the body .
i think that would be cool .
let make that stuff visible .
it would be great .
unfortunately blair not here to talk about this but people are looking at polar bear .
we worry about polar bear these day a they are the called canary in the coal mine of our arctic area and the melting ice cap .
apparently a new study published in ecology the ecological society of america journal scientific naturalist stephen atkinson and kristen ladra are publishing their work icingrelated injury in polar bear at high latitude .
polar bear who we normally think of a being able to jump and run across the ice and theyve got the thick pad and theyve got lot of fur and everythings supposed to be perfect for their adaptation to that environment .
this is the first time that injury to the foot skin ulceration ice buildup hair loss laceration have been reported .
apparently two bear had ice block up to one foot in diameter stuck to their foot pad which made it difficult for them to walk .
this is probably a result of this transition in our climate and understanding how the melting ice and refreezing of the ice is affecting the animal that live on the ice and their ability to function and survive is incredibly important .
they have looked at these bear in two different population in the arctic between canada and greenland and theyve found number of bear that have lot of ice ball stuck to their foot these laceration .
the bear are not happy .
thats where we are ending up .
i feel we talked about this a long time ago but one of the thing that prevents that in all kind of polar specie is having these hair on the paw .
they have hair on the paw .
but i am wondering if they are not a developed now or do you think it is the ice is changed ?
because one of the thing that also that came up in all of this wa that it wa an epigenetic factor that it could have been sourced in the prenatal hormone release from the mother and that it wa likely because of a more relaxed le stress hormone .
and if those stress hormone are rising and it is affecting development that could be affecting the hair follicle deployment on the paw and then therefore you would have what we are seeing .
there also another report thats out from in close one .
it is showing that toxoplasmosis is up in polar bear that they are a number of pathogen that they are encountering .
maybe because they previously had not .
it is interesting .
the author for this study hypothesized that it is all related to climate warming rain on snow event creating moist slushy snow that freeze onto the paw of the animal warm spell causing melting and then refreezing .
and then maybe this is the third is that the population live on whats called fast ice connected to the land near where freshwater glacier meet the ocean .
and that this mean that seawater seeps up into the snow and that allows the snow to clump on the bear foot and cause ice .
i feel theyve been doing that for a while .
i feel the third one is probably the least likely hypothesis .
but what do we know ?
ive never studied a polar bear up close and i hope never to .
i will not be doing that myself either .
this is this week in science .
thank you everyone for joining u . we are here .
if you are enjoying the show if you are enjoying the show .
yeah if you are joining the show i am enjoying it .
yeah i put the word together .
please share the show with a friend .
please share with someone now if you are enjoying it now .
and if you enjoy the show head on over to twist.org and click on that patreon link .
itll send you over to our community site for support and you can become a supporting member and at any amount ten and more a month .
and we will thank you by name at the end of the show .
are we ready to come on back for more this week in science ?
everyone i would love to take this opportunity to bring our guest for the evening dr. steven rouse .
he pulling him steven but we are calling steve .
either way is great .
dr. rouse is professor of psychology at pepperdines siever college with diverse research interest from religiosity to personality test to open science and most recently what people are willing to drink .
thank you for joining u this evening .
thank you much for letting me come .
i am excited to talk about a project that ha been one of the most eyeopening and enlightening and exciting project ive had a chance to take part in in recent year .
yeah i am excited about it .
i wa interested in the idea behind the study because there are many thing we are coming up against these day .
socially with what are people going to accept a thing change in our world ?
and how do we talk to people about thing ?
and i think stuff drinking water is incredibly important .
i thought this wa fascinating .
and before you jump into the study though can you start with basic overview of your diverse interest and how did you go from this diversity of thing that you study into this one particular question ?
yeah ive joked that i am not joked .
ive ive come to the realization that i have a short attention span .
and i love being at a place pepperdine where i am not necessarily expected to stay on the same research agenda year after year after year where i have a little bit more freedom to be able to pursue one topic .
and then if i get to the end of that topic i go that look an interesting thing over there .
and then i get to wander after something else and then and i enjoy getting a chance to explore where my interest are and also to explore where my student interest are .
it is been fun in recent year to be talking with student in class .
and if a question come up it is exciting to be in a discipline where we can not we do not go i wonder but we say let find out .
let let gather data find out about that .
my research background wanders all over the place .
i think thats but it is it is interest your your your overall interest is human psychology and thats .
what make u tick .
i got a quick question because you mentioned the personality test .
what doe it say about me or somebody let say i have a friend .
thats too late .
what doe it say about a person when they are terrified of taking a personality test ?
what it say is that weve elevated the importance of personality test up above where they should be .
i know i study personality test .
thats one of my primary interest but i think a lot of time weve acted a though personality test can tell deep dark secret about a person that no one else will know .
the friend no this friend apparently worked at a major retailer. . year and year ago .
i think they are still in business but but part of getting into the management program wa a fifty question personality test that had it is four category of answer all the way through the thing .
and at some point i am being made to make moral choice .
do i do the empathetic answer ?
or do i do the reasoned answer ?
and there an imaginative answer thats the creative one but maybe they do not want that .
and then then you are overthinking it but then you are also making these deep philosophical choice within yourself .
am i empathetic ?
or am i purely a logical creature ?
and you have to keep it wa it wa very demanding .
for people who think about how they think and how they think about answering question on test it becomes a very meta .
it wasnt it wasnt that seems the answer .
each one i wa this is a deep moral ethical this crossroad fork in the road that ive come across that i now must pick a path for my future mental state .
and then and then they have the disclaimer but this questionnaire is not going to be used to tell whether or not you should work here .
this one wa very definitely this determines your future in this how it wa presented .
but it wa it wa i said it wa fifty question but there were only four category of question that they asked in over and over again in multiple different way weighing them against the other component in that in that survey .
i am always i am always every time i i now do not take them ever since but i am always terrified .
it is i remember i have this trauma of all the choice .
yeah yeah i get that .
i think i am indoor outdoor abcdefg .
thats my sorry i am making fun of various test now .
yeah. . steve you were going to tell u about your about your various interest that you are working on currently or you have worked on ?
yeah it is it is covered anything that anything that i or my student in my class find interesting .
and the class that i teach include personality psychological testing human sexuality .
and in those class we come up with some fascinating i wonder topic and then get to go off and explore them .
this study though wa an entirely different project where it came to me .
and i wa grateful that it did because the local water district had some question that they wanted to ask .
and they connected up with me to see if i would be willing to independently collect data independently run some analysis and answer some important question for them .
i wa grateful to them because this wa an interesting topic that i did not know i wa interested in until i became interested in it until i became invited .
i and my colleague became invited to work on this project .
got a chance to work two psychologist two ecologist working together along with one person who worked at the water district itself to be able to answer some question about how to help people become more accepting of purified recycled water .
here some that doesnt sound hard .
but when you state that then it is what do you think about purified recycled water ?
we have many people have purifier .
we have what could be wrong with that ?
why did that mean a messaging check ?
we have tap purifier .
people are familiar with purified water .
but what is the recycled aspect ?
thats what i would think .
is there more than that though ?
is it waste wastewater system not gray water but the full wastewater recycling ?
i am coming to you from southern california .
i am on the pepperdine campus in malibu .
where there fire it is constant fire .
and thats very relevant to this that we go through period of drought .
but let me back up a little bit .
if i were to go now and pour some water down the drain that water would be a process to make it safe to be put back into the environment to be poured out into the stream and river .
and that would eventually get to the ocean .
but thats a lot of water that is being lost .
thats a lot of water that is being wasted .
because here in southern california in the la area weve got a major city in an area that doe not have access to a very large amount of groundwater .
about a third my understanding is now keep in mind i am a psychologist .
i am not a water scientist .
ive become very educated about this but coming to you from the perspective of a psychologist but apparently about a third of the water that is used in southern california come from local groundwater .
the majority of it either come to u from northern california or it come from the east through the colorado river .
and a lot of the water that we are drinking here in southern california is flowing past community and farm that would love to have access to that water .
and we are a a city that is continuing to grow thats not sustainable to have u use the water once and then dump it into the ocean .
and the local water district is beginning a process by which they are going to begin using purified recycled water a part of the water source for tap water .
the way this system is going to work is that a the water get processed once to the level that it could be released back into the environment released back into the river and stream it is then going to go through a threestage process .
there an ultrafiltration process there a reverse osmosis process and then there an ultraviolet oxidation process .
the water becomes completely pure .
and in fact ive got some of the water with me now a colleague at the water district who are willing to give me some of the water .
this water is the purest water ive ever drunk .
it is amazing to drink something of the comparison .
i remember when i wa young one time went to the carlsbad cavern and if youve gone to a big cave you may have had similar experience where they turned the light off and there no light at all and you experience for the first time true darkness .
drinking this water is almost the gustatory equivalent of the visual experience of having no light .
it is bizarre to drink something that ha absolutely no taste because then you realize ive been tasting thing in the water that ive been drinking until now .
and in fact this water is pure that if you drink nothing but it it is pure it would begin leaching calcium out of your bone because it is that pure .
i wa going to say it need to have the mineral in there .
exactly exactly .
once it go through this three stage process becomes incredibly pure it then get released into the local reservoir .
and my understanding is that once it get released an individual water droplet would take roughly two to four month to go from where it get released to the place where then it get pulled back out again .
and it ha a chance to mix with the water that doe come down from northern california in this natural reservoir or in this in this reservoir then it is treated again to epa standard and it is drinkable consumable .
the technology work the technology this technology is not new .
this is technology that work and ha been around for a long time .
if you think about it the space station ha been using recycled water for decade there not spring of pure water up in space .
and there lot of other community that have been using this technology but people have a knee jerk reaction when they hear about this wa water that at one time had been waste .
and the la virginas water district decided they wanted to invest time money and effort into getting the community comfortable with the idea of this before it went live .
and they contacted me to evaluate the effectiveness of some of their educational program .
thats a drawn out origin story for the for the study .
doe that all make sense far ?
yeah absolutely .
and being from northern california and having lived in southern california i can tell you one northern california it is not straight from the sierra down to southern california .
there all kind of farmland and everything else that you are going to experience .
and it is not sent in underground piping it is sent in these big above ground trench .
that water is already getting exposed to all sort of human influenced environment on the way down which i think that i think the part that wa fat and from being in southern california i did not even know people drank tap water .
i never saw that .
but but the next question but yeah that part that you mentioned about reintroducing it to the reservoir a the method of not only gaining the mixing with and gaining the mineral content but then going through the normal process of purification that would take from the water .
thats the the wa the missing link in my head about how do they get from yes you can do this you can purify the water but then how do you get it back up to a drinking standard ?
and that make total sense now that you would you would reintroduce it to the natural environment where you are pulling it from in the somewhat natural in the reservoir a the mix a the premix .
and thats thats brilliant .
it is .
but thinking about the people who are drinking the water .
justin said who drink tap water in southern california ?
they are bottled water or they are whatever .
did you have any did you ask people a they came in what where they got their water what their thought about their water were ahead of time ?
do they think about where their water come from ?
did you ask these kind of question a you came into the study ?
not those kind of question .
those would be good question to ask about because yeah a lot of time we do not think about where the water come from .
i grew up in even though i am in southern california now i grew up in denver .
and i used to always think about that i am drinking this pure mountain water .
earlier justin you said at the top of the show you talked about how all water is reused water .
and thats absolutely true .
not even talking about all the water that then get evaporated and rained down again even the water that come in a stream go past different community is reused is used and then passed on to someone else .
we are in an area where the last any water that get down the drain doesnt have any other community further downstream .
and thats such a waste for that water to be lost .
and how much water is going to keep coming there you have to plan for the future ?
because we are in a drought prone area .
and the los virginas water district invested money to get and got some great grant to be able to create a demonstration center .
and this is a mini version of the whole water treatment plant that is eventually going to go online .
and this treatment plant or this demonstration center is available for people from the community to be able to come and visit and to be able to walk through the process of seeing this three stage purification process .
and then at the end of the at the end of the process they get a glass of water and can try some of the purified recycled water .
and there a powerful experience of being able to drink it and realize how pure and how perfect it taste .
what we were doing is that we would test people in their attitude about purified recycled water .
and we conducted two study the team conducted two study .
the first study wa a standard prepost study .
we had a group of participant come to the water demonstration center took a test to measure their attitude about purified recycled water and the attitude were pretty diverse .
but then they went through the demonstration center and then at the end they were asked to take that same test again and to give it a chance to drink some water .
and if i do not move around enough my light go out .
you may see me every now and then having to do that .
at the end of the tour though their attitude were substantially higher than they were at the beginning .
in fact every single person wa willing to drink water at the end of the tour .
and we were able to see twice that this demonstration center work .
there a powerful experience in being able to see it for oneself and be able to realize now this is good .
this work .
the people that were there though did them a they were doing the study and see they are hearing about wait is there a cycle ?
and did they have funny face ?
the test face ?
or wa there and wa there a change with that education ?
even when i even when i tell my student about this every now and then when i talk about the whole nature of the project i see student give that disgust expression .
and we did have a component to this study that we wish that it had worked but we did not frankly ill be honest i did not think through one element of it before the study went live .
we had had some software that can measure subtle facial muscle movement especially those facial muscle movement related to different emotional experience .
and the idea wa that we might be able to see whether a person facial expression might show more indication of disgust if they hadnt gone through the tour than if they had gone to through the tour .
i said though we i did not think through one element of it enough and we did not do enough pilot testing because a people are raising a glass to their mouth to sample it walking part of the face that show the disgust .
but we even in the randomized experiment people drank the water and people were in fact in both group people were willing to drink the water .
and it wa exciting to see how much the attitude had changed .
something that you alluded to before weve been talking about when being in high school in denver in high school i wa i lived i grew up in a town that had water .
back then it wa exclusively watered .
it tasted terrible because it had high mineral content beyond .
but my concept of wastewater treatment plant wa that they treated the water and then released it back into the water ecosystem .
in la it make sense especially malibu .
i remember not being able to swim in malibu or down to santa cruz because there wa a wastewater plant that had ruptured and there wa sewage getting sent out and it will pipe into the ocean thats normally sending out the purified water .
what happens in linn with all of the wastewater treatment plant ?
because those are already treating the water thats been used for sewage and everything else wa sewage at one point or tap water going down the drain what have you .
where doe that where doe all that water go ?
thats a good question .
remember you have a psychologist here not the water scientist .
if you are two hundred mile inland it is not there a pipe running all the way to the ocean to get rid of everything .
there are a lot of river and tributary there are lot of place .
but these are the river that then are being used a drinking water downstream from it .
are not we already doing this ?
because again in high school i assumed thats what a wastewater treatment plant wa wa cleaning the water that we would put it back into the system .
yeah to be honest i do not know .
i know that here it is released into the stream .
i have no idea. . and i do know thats how it is in colorado too .
my dad is a hydrogeologist and he and i had a chance to to be honest sometimes he and i do not have a lot to talk about .
this wa a great project .
i wa able to connect it in an unexpected way .
i know that in colorado that is a big part of it that it is released also into the river after it is processed .
but yeah i do not know .
i spend a little bit of time living in west texas .
and i know exactly what you are talking about about the water .
and it is where you can see thing see lime floating in it .
my goodness .
or the the faucet every faucet had this .
the overflow is into the willamette river .
the willamette river go into the columbia river and that people fish there all sort of stuff .
and there for a very long time ha been a lot of disgust about swimming in the willamette river .
you do not you do not catch fish .
and it is a big been a big project to clean up the river .
and the big pipe project ha more capacity make sure that it doesnt overflow .
and they are taking that wastewater and then dealing with it and treating it .
and then yeah it is a whole new situation .
but there the disgust in the environment the environment that you are in and the water and where it go .
everyone know the quote unquote la river which theyve been working on making better .
but then there the water you drink .
and we and i am wondering if this part is part of the acceptance or the advertising campaign that have been used to sell people water .
it is from nice place the bottled water the thing that you buy ?
and your people think the bottled water that they are buying is cleaner and better for them than the water that come out of their tap .
and it is le regulated .
and it is le you are .
the it is a huge deal .
do you have any do you have any further question about this psychology of the acceptance of you the water we are drinking and what what people seem to be willing to accept or not ?
and why ?
there i want to give a shout out to someone whose research i admire .
ive never met him but paul rosen is at university of pennsylvania .
and he done some amazing research on on human disgust and the disgust reaction .
and discus human disgust is fascinating that it it probably wa beneficial to our specie back helping our specie survive the pleistocene era to to be a specie to recognize maybe we shouldnt use the bathroom close to our food source and water source .
we that wa probably helpful for u to have the ability to to be disgusted .
but evolution reward survival more than reward rightness .
and sometimes some of the product of evolution may not be logical .
and we may have some disgust reaction even when thats not rational or realistic .
and i know that rosen and his colleague did one study that i found fascinating where he went through several different stage of asking people whether or not theyd be willing to drink .
for instance one part sewage mixed with a thousand part pure water .
and most people can not that but then what about what about if it is purified and go through a pipe to your faucet ?
the pipe is not enough to purify it .
but if it go one hundred mile down the fast flowing river yeah sure .
or if it get mixed in with a lake yeah sure i guess that that would be fine .
and through this series of question wa able to see what are the process by which disgust can be overcome ?
because disgust we there a concept called contamination permanence that once we think of something a contaminated it doesnt become non contaminated .
unless there something powerful to overplay it .
this is a study that i always feel i have to take a big dose of of suspension of disbelief about it .
but if there in one study people were asked to think about what if you have this sweater and this you find out that this sweater had once been owned by adolf hitler would you wear it ?
people say no i would not .
but what if you find out that this first one yeah it is the almost the evilness contaminating the sweater .
but what if then after it wa owned by hitler mother teresa wore it and people thats even worse .
yeah no absolutely not .
big suspension of disbelief on that about what wa the a homicidal dictator and the world worst con artist combined .
but anyway how we talk about it .
people generally are more accepting of it in that condition .
and thats thats technically that wa mother teresa role .
her biggest her biggest donor were dictator and despot who needed to clean their image .
and thats thats where she received huge donation to go meet with pinuche or whoever the dictator of the day wa or whoever needed cleaning up of their image after an ethnic cleansing event or a suppression of democracy .
mother teresa would show up and be hey look we are friend .
you should tell this story .
and then we should repeat the study .
and then well see how the result of the study change .
doe it know the holy affine effect that it did before ?
yeah this is this is fast .
there also there an element there a story i am going to talk about later on the show about doula .
this spoiler the cessarian delivery were forty seven lower for medicaid patient who were assigned doula .
now the doula are not medical practitioner .
what they are providing is information .
they are answering question .
they are doing some patient advocacy but they are they are explainers .
and helpful hint bring this go bag with you but also translating what the doctor is saying when it is not immediately understood .
and i am seeing the correlation here where once people had the basic education of what to expect and what concern were not going to be relevant with this that it changed their attitude .
and it change the outcome then of people accepting these thing .
but what what amazes me is that there some thing that are harder to get over than other thing .
for instance the idea of purified recycled water still cause a knee jerk reaction for some people whereas we have entire community that still are drinking water that flow through lead based pipe .
and here we have contaminant that have been empirically shown to increase increase the likelihood of adhd to decrease iq and decrease cognitive reasoning ability .
and that doe not cause the knee jerk reaction that purified recycled water doe .
i am grateful that a few week ago epa developed a new rule .
and i think there wa a i can not i should have looked this up at a time i can not remember whether it is two.six million i do not remember what where the how many zero there are .
but i think it is two.six billion dollar to for some major community to be able to finally once and for all get rid of the lead based pipe because that is empirically demonstrated to be detrimental to entire community .
and yet we do not have the discussed knee jerk reaction about that .
i think that is a huge point .
it is that our negativity bias ?
is it what we have been already primed to feel more negatively about ?
is it distance ?
it is somebody else having lead pipe versus u drinking the purified water .
this is opinion .
i feel it is a body thing a opposed to a mineral thing .
lead doesnt seem a icky a body related process .
thats thats terrible .
i do remember this is i lived in an older part of hollywood for for some of my la time .
and i do remember you turn on the faucet and youd have to let it run until it stopped being brown .
who the piping in the building or maybe in the neighborhood ?
it is the proper flaking .
a punch it a punch .
i wa gon na get a lot of it is normal .
a normal first step .
you were but the and even in even in the olden day of growing up in the town with the water that you would think is separate from all because this is where it came from .
it is yeah our water taste bad but it come from a . it is pure .
it is not that wastewater treated stuff that everybody else is drinking .
we got the better water even though it taste terrible .
and then of course year later they did testing and found all kind of benzine and thing that that are not supposed to be drunk that were above the level that you would want to be given fertilizer .
all sort of thing that work it way into .
yeah farm water is by the way farm water is amazing .
thats making it glow in the dark .
i probably do have never checked .
and even if you go if you were to go now to a a camping supply store or a hiking supply store and you get a water filter those water filter are not regulated .
there we get safer water out of the tap .
and yet there some suspicion about that .
my question for the future for education i think and the messaging is not everybodys going to be able to make it to these education center .
not every treatment facility will have the funding to have these kind of walkthroughs and educational outreach initiative .
how do we message moving into the future when we would love people to have water that we are creating sustainably that we are trying to develop new way of living in area where maybe there not enough whatever it is .
but how do you go against the marketing messaging that ha billion of dollar from the big corporation versus it come out of your tap and it is been tested and it is clean .
did you have any other interesting insight from your study or other question that you are interested in looking into with your student ?
weve i said i focus on the topic for a while and then i go into a different topic .
and i have loved this project and we may do a little bit of additional followup to it .
but gotten to a point where now i found some other topic in some other area completely unrelated .
maybe in a couple of year i can come back and talk about something else too .
in a different range .
would you recommend that we refer to the recycled water purified recycled water a toilet water ?
i would think that that would be a very very inaccurate way to describe it .
and in fact often it is referred to a toilet to tap and that phrase is wrong because it is toilet to first processing to ultra filtration to et cetera et cetera et cetera to finally .
and they are trying to be transparent in the name but at the same time it might also be undermining what they are trying to achieve .
in some community that phrase toilet to tap ha not been used by the people who are behind the process but instead people who are trying to shoot that process down .
and that because they are that phrase doe bring back the yuck factor .
and thats a phrase that my understanding is the community where there been some controversy about implementing this that phrase wa used in a almost antagonistic way to lower attitude about it .
yeah there wa a comment in our chat here saying that in san diego they used the word the phrase toilet water and they were able to stop an initiative using recycled water in this man .
speaking from somebody who grew up in farland they do not grow your produce in honey .
all of this is connected .
yeah ive been using the phrase toilet this evening and it is knowingly sensationalistic and i assume the intelligence of my listener in this conversation to know i use it in humor and not in seriousness .
now it is time for you to leave your arm .
all of your is grown in poop .
thats how we do it .
thats what work .
thats what make it grow .
yeah get educated get over it .
i want that tshirt get educated .
don hogan in the chat room is everything ever see what end up in a hot water heater is that bad to drink ?
yes it is not ever recommended to drink your hot water because your hot water heater typically most hot water system do gain a lot of contaminant and roll buildup over year .
and did you ever know there could be extremophiles in there ?
you do not know .
but you are supposed to drink it if the water supply ha been shut down due to a major earthquake or some other catastrophe then it can be a source .
then go ahead .
it is worth it .
but yeah it is typically you are not supposed to drink that .
do not use hot water and then boil water to preheat it or anything that .
only drink the cold water because it is not gone through that extra potentially contaminated stuff .
steve do you have anything else you want to add about this study or any other work that you are currently interested in that you want to comment on ?
that broad openended question is a paralyzing question to me .
i do that to people .
yeah but i have moved on to especially currently working on some question that some student and i were curious about during my human sexuality class .
and yeah in a couple year maybe i can come back and tell you about some cool thing weve been finding out there .
what wa the question ?
whats the question at least ?
and at the same time the majority of people again more than fifty at least have some objection to pornography .
if you think about that venn diagram there are a lot of people who are engaging in a behavior that is causing them distress because of some incompatibility with their value with their value system .
and we are beginning the process of looking at what are the kind of opposition that people have about pornography .
and we are starting to look at is a person opposition due to exploitation of people or is a person opposition due to any religious belief or is a person opposition due to unrealistic expectation that they may have .
there multiple reason why a person may have some opposition .
and if a person wanting to address a value discrepant behavior maybe instead of treating everyone in a cookie cutter way a though everyone ha the same basis of their opposition maybe we need to start looking into where the opposition is for each individual person .
if they are engaging in something that they want to reduce how can we help them reduce that behavior ?
no thats thats we are reduce the meaning here if it is disturbing or in conflict ?
yeah if where is the discrepancy coming from and what is the cognitive distance that a person going through and how do we understand that ?
because i think that that approach might be better than the ineffectual approach that is often used in the porn addiction industry .
when from study about hiding autism masking autism symptom to study about water purification to porn i all over the place .
but thats what i love about my job .
thats cool .
yeah thats why i love working at a place this where i can do that .
i wa wait you can do that in science ?
i thought you had to be super focused .
hold on .
all we have a few more story to go .
do you want to hang out and talk about them or you can add ?
id love to if you do not mind some blank slate question of complete ignorance going into the topic .
thats how i approach everything in life .
thank you much for joining u dr. rouse .
this is this week in science .
if you are loving the show even if you are not i do not know head over to twist.org click on our zazzle link .
you can find our merchandise there hat pen they do not know if we have pen .
maybe you can find a pen twist .
we have mouse pad and hat and all sort of thing .
i do not know why i said pen .
now we have to make them .
now i have to make a pen .
but if you would to help support the show zazzle is a great way to find bit of twist that you can carry around with you throughout your day .
all come on back justin .
thats a good pen .
it is a great pen .
it is your turn justin .
let talk about the doula .
this is a ... all i want to talk about doula .
yeah this research wa following up .
doula are not what do you call it medical advisor .
they are not yeah they do not do medical care .
doula are something that ... irregenced one have experience with stuff but yeah they havent been trained in medicine .
not necessarily but they are not a midwife which is going to be a degree and they are going to be involved in delivering the child and giving you medical advice and doing the evaluation along the way .
a doula is somebody who there to inform to educate and to advise mother who are expecting .
and saying our patient ha requested this and only want that option a a last resort if it is an emergency situation .
there advocacy there education they will do the not the ultrasound but the one where you are listening for the heartbeat a thing .
this is the study wa intriguing to me because when my we were assigned a doula in my small farming town back in two thousand and two two thousand and three when my first child wa born .
this thing it wa sounding me that this ha only become something that wa included with medicaid in two thousand and twenty .
and they found that with the doula cesarean delivery were forty seven le likely .
we have thing to do we got to schedule it chop chop .
it is efficient for the doctor but it can have ramification on future delivery a a potential .
it is in a which wa another element that they found that this wa also by preventing cesarean that you could be creating future fertility functionality .
or how not why but how .
how and why .
there is very often there is a for many woman they have no idea what they are doing whats going on .
and it is not it is being lost inside of being lost .
and i wonder doe the doula relationship last beyond the birth ?
is the doula still there after ?
is the doula only there a that transition that person that is between the hospital and the mother the family ?
what is the relationship thats involved here ?
wa there a difference at any point with any part of the population they were looking at ?
yeah there wa a slight let me go find it here but i got it .
there wa yeah in county with high infant mortality rate caesarean delivery dropped by fifty seven with the woman with doula support .
it wa another eleven higher ten higher in those underserved community .
the effect wa bigger there ?
there wa a lack of significant fighting regarding emergency department visit inpatient admission postpartum depression or anxiety .
these were not affected meaning yeah the doula did not solve all the problem but it did not contribute to them either ?
it wa it did not it did not have any negative and had all these positive associated with it .
and this in this study you can look at there have been previous study that indicated that this should be the trend and is the trend elsewhere .
but this one wa post expansion in medicaid .
and then you can look at it this is the followup how did our expansion work ?
what is the result ?
and what it show is extremely positive .
therefore it would be very likely that this will get expanded further .
i do not know it doesnt explain whether the doula are doing the followup or if it is at the hospital .
i do not know if it wa normal .
normal channel if there extra communication after the fact .
then maybe they thats why they werent going .
but it could be that they have to go there versus maybe the doula wa visiting at home .
those are also maybe there a convenience factor involved but it doesnt it did not pull those detail out of the study .
i am speculating there which way it might have played out .
i am wondering also go ahead steve .
thats exciting especially to find out about the extra information that getting information begets the desire to get more information and getting learning make you realize the value and continue to seek out learning .
but i think it is the doula here is human ?
this is a person who interacting with you personally who hows it going ?
have you made this appointment ?
and this is your next step .
and this is what you should expect and leading you through the process ?
and justin said also an advocate for you .
you sit and you watch an asynchronous tour of the hospital and asynchronous lecture or explanation of stuff thats going on .
and that is that is the tour are nice .
the tour are nice because there some people meeting in the space and seeing people and walking through ?
going to be an emergency mode when the day comes. . you are going to be in urgent freak out mode trying to keep cool because you are not the one giving birth .
it is rainbow and marshmallow .
but knowing we park here we walk here take a left and then it is going to be down the hall and to the or knowing exactly where your footstep will be on that day is exceedingly important .
can definitely think about my own personal experience of the ignorance brings about all these panic thought about what could possibly go wrong .
and we were able to go through a tour and we are able to see yeah we can do this and even seeing people in the process and think they are doing it we can do it .
this is good .
that that is a shame .
thats too bad .
and it but it make me wonder .
yeah but it make me wonder it is interesting to see how the expansion of this within medicaid ha been beneficial beneficial .
but at the same time it is a question how it is the real impact it is going to have .
one of the one of the thing that i think influence why doula are important is what you are saying .
they are paid a tremendously lower salary than your phd obgyn meaning that they will be able to spend a lot more time with the patient than they may spend with the obgyn. . and the patient can not call up the obgyn all the time .
you call and they are excuse me i be on hold or we are gon na find well find somebody else to answer your question or yeah .
there is an economic driver that should be recognized in this that you will get a lot more education in this doula system than you ever will and getting those quick meeting where they are gon na check this check that check this out the door a scenario .
with the human touch education with the human touch .
want to move to your next one ?
what wa the next one ?
where did i got to say that ?
is if i pulled up a whole bunch of other extra in case this one this one is real quick .
what wa i going to do ?
i wrote it down .
yeah i can this is the global warming silver lining .
i do not know how much .
here it is .
because one of the thing weve all been most concerned about when it come to global warming is how will it affect coffee production ?
thats the leading thing on everybodys mind .
this is the biggest concern .
and i think the concern is is is maybe underrated .
especially for you a a host of this week in science in denmark at 5am .
this is real quick .
this is a a a a plus study .
it say under climate change scenario thirty to forty four of thirty to thirty sorry thirty to forty four more land in ethiopia may become suitable for growing arabica coffee by two thousand and eighty .
now ethiopia is i think the only i think thats where coffee wa maybe the only other coffee i do not know .
but this is this is one of the major producer of coffee worldwide .
it is more than a quarter of ethiopia income .
currently it is the largest growing industry of coffee anywhere in term of more and more land .
but then know that they are going to get up to forty four more land that will be suitable for growing coffee under global warming condition under two different model that were the scenario that were run .
is at least some good news .
these there are these question ?
how is the water going to be redistributed a climate change ?
we can not make prediction of we are starting to make very specific prediction .
apparently new mexico santa fe new mexico area is or arizona is going to have more water .
i do not know but i do not know whether that mean more flood or whether that mean more nice running river in an area that is now very dry .
itll likely be both .
this is not aerial river .
what is it called ?
atmospheric river .
we are supposed to have one of those this weekend in portland .
well move from portland maybe down into central california or place east and dump tremendous amount of water sometimes and then nothing for a few year after .
and it mean it is more stochastic unreliable at least unreliable in the sense that it is not the pattern that we are accustomed to in a hundred year of last hundred year of american climate .
which is already a very subjective starting point deciding that this is how thing always will be .
the question here with ethiopia though is south america are you going to have whats going to happen to your environmental condition for coffee and chocolate and thing and should you move your arm to ethiopia ?
what it is also showing is that thing will move .
a there forty four more land available in ethiopia there might be twenty le somewhere else .
or in south america this is again this is misremembering the information is that it wasnt much i think that the coffee growing overall area were going to be reduced or increased but that they would be moving .
and then you have a scenario of it is if central california they are central california is no longer good at growing tomato .
we have to move all of that to nevada .
thats not a thing that you do overnight .
that is a tremendous shift of industry of infrastructure .
even when we were talking about how much area will be affected sometimes we are not describing that those area will not be in the same place .
because this article is specific to ethiopia .
and yeah thats the question that came to my mind first of what about other place ?
is this gain at the loss elsewhere ?
and what is the balance of loss and gain ?
and i think thats important for u to look not at individual country but to look more systemically at the entire the world ecosystem .
yeah that is the point .
did you have more to say about the coffee justin ?
did you have a quick blurb at the end of their show there ?
because yeah it wa good i usually bring terrible news when it come to global warming .
i look for the good news .
i am this look a good story .
ill bring this one .
and then by the end of it it slip .
and i wa wait i thought this wa a good story .
you knew the whole time .
all let me move on to my last couple of story a we finish up the show here .
social medium some of u spend more and more time on different social medium .
now that it is become more and more fragmented some of u are still on x others have moved to thread .
there the mastodon federated server blue sky i am on there .
there a butterfly .
i followed the butterfly .
there many different social medium platform .
and researcher published in iscience it is openly accessible to anyone .
their study of the x former twitter platform but it wasnt because they couldnt get the data anymore because the api ha been shut down to researcher since it wa purchased and is under new ownership .
the researcher simulated a social medium platform that might be x which is formerly twitter in their research .
this is a simulation of something that might happen in the real world .
and the whole thing is is this very relevant or verifiable ?
anyway the question is since x and other platform have verified user verification on some platform is simply show u who you are and well say that you are a real person .
and then it doesnt mean anything it mean that you are then verified a a human being and a who you say you are .
the new x platform is using verification a a pay for play .
if you pay for a subscription fee you are verified .
and the algorithm ha been suggested to prioritize those paid verified user over others .
and the question is do these verified user then have an outsized influence on whats going on and what people are thinking on the website on the platform ?
the researcher were we can not get the data let simulate it .
and they put together their computer simulation where they used verified individual verified individual with very extreme biased position that were very firm and unflexible .
and then individual who were verified who were more likely to shift their view and listen to other people have conversation with people .
and what they determined is that verified user using what the assumed model for the algorithm in the x platform is that verified user yes indeed do influence the view and the idea that take hold on the social medium platform .
and those user become more influential when they are le likely to talk to people .
and people are more likely to start to accept what those people say a opposed to have conversation and share information .
the theory is that when you have verified individual who can reach more people and can significantly impact idea formation that that can reinforce echo chamber which can have then ripple effect into not that medium platform but also into other medium outlet and also society in general .
the question is what do you do about this moving forward ?
and we do not know what to do but they plan to increase the realism of their model .
they want to add new speed and reposting and they are going to incorporate data from other platform that have more open apis blue sky .
the concern is that you have medium mogul or biased individual with money who are paying for account maybe even paid bot account and pushing information in very biased way that can have very negative influence .
but maybe i am a good person and i have lot of money and i have a good bot network .
what do we think about this ?
are we still doing social medium everyone ?
i stopped a long time ago and it wa there wa a point in the early day of the twitter where the only people on twitter were interested in engaged in the subject that they were discussing .
and at some point the troll factory broke in and started smashing conversation everywhere possible .
and i love the idea of open democratic conversation .
but i think there should be an internal ethic of i have something to contribute to this in a constructive way before an individual engages in the open form of discussion .
and i do not see that anywhere in there .
what i see instead is a horrible banter and it is not worth my time because i am not getting anything out of it and i am not communicating anything of value or learning anything of value from a lot of the conversation that go on .
for that reason i stopped even looking at the social medium .
but it ha been it is still a place where a lot of people spend their time and influence a lot of our society at this instant .
and thats what i am speaking specifically about the twitter .
there other one that i will i still do not do posting or ... show your baby picture i know .
theyve got a new kid .
this is a costbenefit analysis ?
what is it for you a an individual ?
and i think each of u is doing that .
but i do not know i worry about our kid .
i worry about our society in general .
if i missed it in the description of the study please forgive me .
but did they communicate to the participant what the verification represented ?
because you are is the verification ive paid money and therefore i am allowed to have this this designation or is it some recognition of being a real person in this particular study ?
did they educate that ?
because i do feel thats part of internet and social medium literacy for people to be able to find out what exactly doe this verification mean that it doesnt necessarily mean you are an expert on a topic .
it mean you paid money or it mean you are real .
did they at all communicate to the participant what that verification represented ?
no this wa yeah they had these very fake verification .
it is the real world .
yeah and they were looking to see how different number of the verified user impacted the formation of idea or of little echo chamber within the total .
yeah that wa part of it .
this is an extension of a philosophy that ha been my gosh now i forgot what the decision wa by the supreme court .
but that there a philosophy that ha been endorsed by the supreme court which ha allowed dark money to flow into politics which state that money is free speech .
and by incorporating that into a public forum type look something that appears a public forum but is not having people who pay into that system get more weighted speech is absolutely in keeping with that philosophy .
to me it is unsurprising that the algorithm are preferencing people who pay coming from a company .
thank you david .
thank you much .
and thats why that and when always escape me is because it is such double speak .
but when we come down to it such double speak terminology citizen united for corporation over citizen speech is what they should have called it .
but of course they called it citizen united .
it sounded friendly .
that you want to talk about toilet water .
thats what toilet water is .
thats toilet water .
there we go .
yeah but i think that the point that steve got out is the education aspect .
and i think a lot of people do not understand how the platform work that they are using they do not understand the algorithm that are influencing what they see and different topic they see different user they see .
i think i think education on that front would go a long way to help pop these echo chamber bubble .
but yeah it is difficult though because the system change frequently .
and it is hard to have an education system with a constantly dynamically shifting topic that we need to make people literate about .
and how do you how do you enhance literacy when youve got an ever shifting topic ever shifting goalpost ?
thats hard .
and i think this is a good segue into my into another story here which is you teach people the best negative bias .
one lesson this is it we could we could have taught people not to social medium but we did not do that .
we did not know the danger .
however art of generative artificial ai or large language model .
let teach people not to them people already starting out not too keen on them .
let keep going this way everyone .
new study published using chat gpt and story written using the most recent version of chat gpt .
this is published in journal of communication .
researcher put two different version of the same story one written by a person and the other by chat gpt .
and then participant judged how much they liked the story .
however did they flip ?
did they flip it on them ?
did they trick the people ?
no they they said how much do you the story and generally people liked the story written by human better .
but the chat gp story were a close second .
they werent a far off a you would expect .
they did not laugh .
they lacked the depth .
it wa a if they were written at a more basic level .
they lacked some of that the detail and whatever it is that human factor that get into a storytelling .
but it wa close .
but it wa close .
but when they asked the participant to judge the story and they told them this is written by a person or this is written by chat gpt chat gp wa gtp wa terrible .
people did not those story at all .
they loved the story written by people .
they were superior .
whats interesting i think about this is did they flip it on the because maybe this is the same study and i misunderstood it because i did not bring it for the show .
i did not prior to it .
but it sounded it wa the story written by human if the participant were told that they were written by chat gpt that they did not them .
they did .
it wa their bias decided whether or not they liked it not the material itself .
thats exactly it .
but that wa why they did that .
but because they saw in the first instant experiment that they were very close .
they werent that far off .
and the question wa if people knew would it be different ?
or if they were told i do not know if it wa would it be different ?
and i do not know if it wa chat gpt .
it is the only one i know the name of .
otherwise ive ignored .
ive at this point not been forced to learn the name of any other large language model thing that i have to keep in mind .
it is branded now .
but what i am interested here in is our human bias that are already yeah ill say yes before i get to it .
we know that in hiring in the science that or even in ranking for nsf grant that if gender or race are involved there are difference in the way that the application or the proposal are ranked by the people doing the assessing .
when you get rid of those identifying factor those difference very often go away .
not always but they are more likely to go away .
there ha been shown time and again that when we know who we are assessing we are already biased in a particular way .
and this is another example of that .
but the extremity of it i think is interesting and i wonder if it will hold .
and i want where is it coming from now ?
and yeah .
is it fear ?
of course .
there an interesting thing that ai is doing with the music industry now .
do not go in there .
pretty incredible which is it can take the voice of one artist and have them sing the lyric of something else .
there some pretty fascinating mashups that now exist .
and there a huge outcry that this is ruining the future of music .
but this is weve been through this many time .
we had what is this synthesized music ?
you mean you will not have an artist playing all of the instrument ?
that will ruin music .
what do you mean it can be recorded and shared ?
that will ruin music .
what do you mean it will be video killed radio and the synthesizing synthesized digital music killed live performance .
all of these thing are going to are happening regardless of how much anybody want to pump the brake on it .
i want to hear an artist that i can feel ive developed a relationship with them and their music over many year and enjoy what they create .
i want to read story from a person .
i want to there are certain aspect to the creation artistic creative creation of thing that i a an individual i think many other people would to continue consuming from people .
but thats not to say that these generative and other tool that are artificial intelligence quote unquote which we have said many time before they are not intelligent .
but that they are good tool and we can use them a tool .
but yeah i do not know .
would you how do you think steve how do your student feel about the ai stuff going on ?
ive got a colleague who ha done some amazing work trying to educate her student about the limitation of chat gpt .
and shes done a project where she ha ha them generate a term paper a very brief term paper using chat gpt and then go into that and look at what is accurate and what is not accurate .
and even color code green this is good yellow red no these are not even real source that are being cited .
and shes done a great job of being able to show that the student emerge from that experience a lot more skeptical a lot more cautious about even using chat gpt for their own work .
upper level student start out more skeptical than the beginning level student do .
but the realization of being able to see and evaluate a paper on a topic help a person come to a realization that yeah this is not it may sound good .
the language itself may roll and the chat gpt can come up with phrase that communicate but yeah it is not there yet .
it is not it is not they are not going to take my podcast yet .
i agree the chat gpt can not write .
and when you are asking it to generate you are asking it to make it up .
there have been lawyer who have cited case that did not exist because they asked for a legal to generate a legal brief with reference to case law .
and it did because it is going to do what you ask even though those case law did not exist .
yeah it is not going to say i can not do that. . but what it sometimes it doe and then if you needle it itll go yeah i guess i can do that and it continues .
but what i found it is good at is analyzing a text that you have offered it .
i do this i use this a a i do not know if i am supposed to say this .
i use this a a tool sometimes when i am writing up on a scientific research paper .
i might have a forty page paper that ha four leg and is in getting deep into method technique and thing that i am maybe not familiar .
if i put it in that whole if i put the study into chat gpt i can ask question about the study .
what is the cohort size ?
what were the what were the implicate where doe it reference how the group were separated ?
and i found it to be highly accurate if you give it a specific text to work off of .
if you are asking it to go outside of a already set text it ha all kind of yeah gosh know where it is pulling information for .
but if you limit it to hallucination they call it hallucin because it interpolates it is a predictor ?
it is probably but if you limit it to analyzing a text that you have provided it it is good at breaking down that information .
there going to be there going to be us for it that i think people may have not tapped quite yet which is that it is not going to generate a story or tell a tale or give you a legal brief or do your work for you .
but it can assist in analysis .
and i found it to it will do those thing not ive found it to be highly accurate .
also if you ask it to double check it will .
and sometimes it is ill go oops .
you even even though it is good at analysis you have to find that in the an original study to verify because it can make mistake .
it is not perfect .
but when you are dealing with a large volume of text it is good at being used a a tool of inquiry .
you can ask question about the study and you can tell you whether that wa covered where it wasnt covered or what the closest thing wa and where it reference it .
i am going to move u to my nighttime nightmare fuel for u . underwater walking honey badger .
mad robotics out of poland ha a fourlegged dog robot that they it normally doesnt go underwater but they they put it underwater and this is the sound of a robot underwater at the bottom of a pool .
this is you will not hear draw anymore .
this is the sound you should be aware of .
they used to say worry about the robot until you can throw them in the pool .
now you can not throw them in the pool anymore .
i have robot in my ear .
ooh i did not hit stop on the youtube screen .
sorry it wa yelling .
mark rober wa yelling in my ear .
but these mad robotics quadruped are currently being used hopefully for underground activity for mining for emergency situation and maybe now for underwater work a . i will never forget the sound of these robot .
yeah i used to always think if the if a robot uprising happened youd hop on a boat somewhere but no no thank you .
no robot thats what i am here for .
steve thank you much for joining u on the show tonight .
it is fun that you you stayed and that you are still here .
yeah thanks for thanks for letting me join you .
yeah it wa a fun combo for sure .
yeah i enjoyed it .
thank you .
and everybody out there thank you much for joining u justin .
i think we got to the end of another episode of this week in science .
it is time for me to say lot of thank yous .
thank you to everyone in the chat room for being here and talking and for commenting and for leading some of our aside in the conversation .
additionally thank you to who we have gord and aran lore who helped keep the chat room happy nice place to be .
thank you to fada for helping with social medium and show description .
thank you to rachel for editing the show .
thank you to identity four for recording the show .
and thank you much to our twist patron .
adam mishkon aaron parishan aaron luthin bob calder marjorie pauldi disney david szemerly patrick pecorato and tony stile .
thank you all for your support of this week in science .
we can not do any of this without all of you .
and if any of you are interested in helping u keep the show going and supporting what we do please head over to twist.org and click on that patreon link to help with what we do here .
and i would also to tell you that we will be back next wednesday with more of this week in science .
and a guest our guest is going to be i am going to make juliana fortier who will be coming to u from uc berkeley greater good science center .
and shes going to be talking with u about some of their recent initiative and some very exciting stuff .
let all be good people .
yes and we will be back .
did we already say this ?
well be back .
but then i said but with an interview .
wednesday eight p.m. pacific time .
and then another show at five a.m. thursday central european time .
you could pick which one you want to attend .
and we will be broadcasting those show live from our twitch youtube and facebook channel .
and if you want to listen to u a a podcast search for this week in science wherever podcasts are found .
if you enjoyed the show get your friend to subscribe too .
for more information on anything youve heard here show note link to story are available on our website www.twist.org .
we can also sign up for a newsletter that you might never even have to receive .
i do not think a newsletter for four year .
you can send u an email though about our newsletter if you want .
if you would to write a newsletter for this week in science please contact u . we love your feedback .
if there a topic you want u to address or cover suggest for an interview let u know .
one of our social medium account might be there or send u an email .
put twist in the subject line it doesnt get spam filtered into the bottom of the ocean with one of those fourlegged robot .
i will never be near that .
we look forward to discussing all great thing about science again with you next week if youve learned anything from this show .
remember it is all in your head .
you might have to dance .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
it is the end of the world i am setting up a shop got my banner unfurled .
it say the scientist is in .
show them how to stop the robot with a simple device .
ill reverse global warming with a wave of my hand .
and all itll cost you is a couple of grand .
this week in science is coming your way .
everybody listen to what i say .
i use the scientific method for all that is worth .
and ill broadcast my opinion all over the earth .
cause it is this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
this week in science .
and we are back with the twist after show .
and it is already after after hour .
it is now past seven am since your european time .
it is still completely dark outside .
i think that weve shifted .
it is shifted into those .
sorry ive shifted into those .
those darkness hour .
at some point there going to be light from around ten am until three pm .
thats not what we had .
let see what are they saying ?
thats not central european type .
thats far north i guess .
not the ... do you feel that at all where you are at ?
the effect of the sunlight change ?
i went to grad school in minnesota and i said i grew up in denver but then i spent time in texas and then up to minnesota .
and i could feel the reality of it during the winter of the lack of sunlight .
are you getting any of that ?
yeah because i think denmark might be about a far north a calgary or something that .
maybe even a little further north than that .
and then when you get off of work it is dark .
and you wonder ha the sun gone away ?
because you will not encounter it in a day .
it is wild .
now the converse though is also interesting .
because the converse is in the peak summer time .
you will have sunlight till eleven oclock at night .
and then the sun will be showing up at four oclock in the morning .
and then youll be around .
it get dark and you are what is that ?
people live in darkness .
how do you do that ?
how do you function ?
how do you go out in late in the evening and still see everything ?
yeah when my kid were young my spouse and i were glad that we were living in southern california and not one of those area .
because it is easy to tell the kid it is time to go to bed .
they can accept that .
but if it doesnt get dark until one thousand one hundred and thirty no no thats a problem .
then you need blackout curtains. . and a whole ... i think i had to improvise in the beginning with ... and this worked amazingly .
a spray water spray bottle on the window and then putting aluminum foil .
and it stick .
it is and blocked out the window until i could go and pick up blackout curtain which is the thing i did not realize that i needed .
the best blackout curtain in the world are in the northern country .
but yeah but then and then you get to winter and you do not have any use for them at all .
it is ... but then it is all electricity or i guess whale fat .
we are using solar a lot in california .
for power but then you need battery .
you need to power the christmas light somehow .
come on .
i laughed at that .
but that is ... that is when i wa in greenland for six week .
thats how the cabin i wa in wa heated .
it wa a narwhal blower that wa being used a the heating source .
not a convenient a all the water pipe underneath the city of reykjavik .
thats for sure .
and then ive told this story before but there wa no piping in this little greenland village .
there wa a bucket and i got there with a bunch of researcher .
it wa nine or ten of u sharing this one cabin and they were gon na go off and do this for the expedition .
we all got there and i wa i wa there a toilet .
and then i realized it is with a bucket under .
and it wa we had been there nine ten of u for i think three day .
and the whole time i am what do they do with this bucket ?
because they are there a crew that come by and take care of the bucket .
but i am how do they clean the bucket ?
where is their water source for that ?
and how did they that seems a intense job .
turn out unbeknownst to anybody that wa there there are these rubber durable bag that are supposed to be put into the bucket .
the crew when they came wa rather upset .
they taken the bag .
did not put together that you obviously need a liner for the bucket for them to transport it away .
here a room full of phd .
horribly mortified by the fact that they hadnt put together that this make no sense .
it is magically going to take care of itself .
i wa i thought yeah it is going to win .
i we were all can not wait to see how they handle this .
do they take the put a new bucket ?
are they going to bring a fresh bucket and then take that one away and it go somewhere and get cleaned and where do they clean it ?
because they are wheres and hence wa your learned the usefulness of informational visuals .
this is a lack of knowledge .
very quickly .
eric knapp in the chat room beaten by a honey bucket .
my goodness .
i am excited about our inner our conversation next week .
talking about humanizing humanization across divide a opposed to dehumanization which ha led to much .
i am excited about next week also .
what else do you have going on steve ?
yeah we are here hanging out now .
i am here hanging out but we are yeah this time of the year we are getting term paper and thing that .
lot of exciting grading going to be happening over the next little bit. . now thats exciting .
i am excited about grading .
id be great .
i do think it is exciting .
you do think it is exciting ?
you do. . you do not have an army of teaching assistant that .
no no weve even got a policy here that ta can be used for big class but even then it can only be for grading thing that are objectively scored .
and ive got colleague who teach large or teach a stats class and a stats class you can objectively score whether or not the formula were calculated but ive got going to be having some term paper coming in in the next little bit .
and we wouldnt want to be having ta grading those .
and yeah but thats something that i enjoy being a part of the process of helping people learn how to write and and walking them through that process to become stronger writer .
one thing that we did not talk about with your with your work is your interest in open science .
i think and weve talked about before the the replication project to try and replicate a whole bunch of psychology research to make sure it is whether or not it wa good and yeah .
how did you get involved in that ?
i wa ive got a ive got a a number in my head thats probably pulled from nowhere that sixty something percent of the fundamental research that underpins psychology ha not been replicatable .
it is it is i do not know if it is that big but i know that there a lot of it that hasnt necessarily seen rigorous replication .
yeah and i have run into that myself .
it is i i used to teach the intro to side class .
i do not teach that now .
and many of the most fun story to tell and most fun study to talk about i now can not talk about the last time i taught i wa i do not know that i can believe this study .
there there one cool study that made the argument that if you if you have people watch a film holding a hand in their key they are using a lot of the same muscle that they use to smile and theyll rate it a more funny .
but if you hold it in your mouth in a way thats using some of the frowning muscle though theyll re rate the same video clip le enjoyably .
and sad to know that that study doesnt replicate because thats a fun one to talk about .
and yeah that psych ha been hit hard especially my end of psychology is the personality slash social psychology .
and thats where some of the biggest scandal came out in that branch of the psychology or sub branch of psychology .
but i am i am a the i am the editor of the journal of psych the psych journal of psychological research psych is the honor society of psychology .
and i am the journal editor for that .
registration is extremely important because you declared i am going to look at this and then you publish the result on it versus we ran thirty version of this study .
here the one we .
thats the only thing that the public see if it is not registered ?
because when when a study is evaluated with when we are looking for statistical significance we are with the standard cutoff level accepting a one in twenty chance of getting data that are not accurate accurate .
if we run twenty study it is very likely that one of them may become statistically significant even if there no effect there .
and if i continue to torture the data until i find something statistically significant i might i might end up with an article .
torture the data .
it is it is a real thing .
it is and and i ive got to even acknowledge that my own process of research ha become stronger because there were time when it wa try a different type of analysis or maybe double the sample size and let see what happens .
and now we are reminding ourselves no thats not what we teach our student in research methodology class .
we shouldnt be doing that either .
and i think thats a a good evolution for psychology to be buying into all these open science method and replication stuff .
i went to an open science the what are they the there a a society for open science or something that .
center for open science and yes the center for open science .
and they had a meeting a couple of week ago and it wa interesting to sit in on it and hear what people were saying about the platform and the methodology .
and it seems it is it is a lot there a lot of infrastructure thats being built to support it now .
and i i guess i with all of the normal methodology of what stats program and how you are going to do everything how realistic is it ?
do you think that this is going to grow and do you do you think do you are you optimistic that it is going to be something that influence science that it is going to be picked up by a large part of the community ?
it is going to it is going to prevent u from having this ability to go out and discover if we have to preregister everything .
and i saw a lot of hesitation when that movement first started but now people are accepting that no it doesnt have to .
it is take an extra step and make it public .
what are you wanting to find out ?
we all have to go through the process of getting our study approved by an ethic board .
it doesnt take too much extra work to also then put in a publicly accessible place ahead of time .
i am going to gather data from this many subject .
i am going to run these analysis .
i am hoping to find out this .
yeah thats a best practice and i see more and more acceptance of it .
i am thinking of animal study and human there the the ethic board but then also if you are going and getting animal out of the wild you have to list how many animal you want and all this stuff .
there there all sort of place where you already have this information planned out .
yeah it wouldnt be thinking a you are explaining it it wouldnt be a big step and then youve got it all .
and for publication it is weve already got it there .
maybe it is a whole process easier .
it almost a red flag at some point especially if it is especially if it is any a health claim where there is a thing you could take that would fix it whatever that may be .
you do not get to see anything .
and there no you can see the data but there not a preregistration .
it mean you got a version of a study .
thats the red flag .
thats the assumption i make is you got the version that made that connection and you have no idea how many three four fifty time they ran version of that study where they did not find that connection .
and thats thats the thing that thats where where i get i do not see it .
i do not see that they they they they said in advance that they were going to do this study and hold themselves accountable to that result .
the one thing i would love to have seen i always talk about this and i wish i had the wherewithal the finance if i wa a multibazillionaire or a good community organizer i would love to see a journal of no result .
here a here a an entire journal dedicated to failed replication study .
is not there one ?
it is not popular but there is one .
even then even if you run run a study that maybe did not fail to replicate but you are the researcher you ran the study and then once you were done and got your result you say the hypothesis did not show up with a signal .
those that is a viable resource .
because whether it is an animal study or a psychological study or whatever the if you do not have a it would be a great research we could go doe this been looked at before ? ?
can i say there fifteen different study that tried to connect these and found no link and no association or no but they went about it with this particular particular methodology .
and maybe if i try it this way itll be that said more fruitful pathway .
it is difficult because i completely agree with you but journal want to have article that are going to be you are we want an impact factor .
and well try some study but we will not we will sidestudies that get significant result .
and you need to find you need to not do that .
i think it would be interesting because i think you could at some point incentivize citing no result .
we looked at this because we saw ten the these study had no result these study had no result these study had no and cite them .
this is why we went in this direction because we saw unpromising research in the other direction .
it seems it could be cited .
but if the if it is with the .
but if the if we are if we are putting those thing in initially and registering the study and then it doesnt work out then it is that wa done .
majority of thing put into the clinical trial do not have the result that they were hoping for expecting .
but every time that happens it is searchable .
you can look at method dosage amount what were the interaction that there were the mechanism that they were hoping would take place .
and then you can ask why did not it work ?
yeah i can see why it should have .
is there something in between ?
is it mitigating the response or wa it the dosage were not or is this doesnt work ?
and i think that a lot of scientist i wa worked under neil sharkey who wa at uc davis the head of the orthopedics research lab went on to do head of research and development at penn state .
and he had told me at one point that something ninety of animal trial and experimentation in orthopedics ha been done probably at every university .
because this is also this very long time ago .
this is almost before a shared internet environment ?
but that information because it is not shared those study keep getting repeated and repeated and repeated and repeated for people trying to connect what should be logical connection but are not there .
and yeah the journal of null result of the lack of confirmation the journal that i think would be a wonderful database for people to be able to search before engaging in their own research to see the pitfall that have come .
the literature review ?
the center for open science ha already been mentioned and that one of their tool one of their resource is the open science framework .
and thats wonderful because it ha a built in pre registration system and you can search it you can not search the published literature but also search osf to see what other people have tried the similar type of thing to find those kind of null result .
thats brilliant .
and you can say hey i wanted to do this study this way .
and then if somebody doing something you can reach out and be hey i am going to do it this .
do you want to collaborate or not ?
and suddenly maybe you are working together and driving thing forward faster .
yeah absolutely .
it is one thousand and thirty here on the western hemisphere which is getting a little late .
i know some of our viewer are on the east coast .
i am respecting the super late nighttime of some of these people and the ever i can not say earlier it is the later morning for justin .
the marked in our discord chat room shared this robot .
i want to because we ended on the robot noise shared this robot that our robot story reminded him of .
and this is supported look by darpa .
these military lobster robot this is what it is out there .
boy and see they say they are boy and see claw .
it is a lot of fun .
thank you for sharing that on the discord .
thats super fun .
but it is only one thousand one hundred and thirty .
what kyle is fantastic .
wheres kira one hundred and thirty am where can that even be ?
kira cent one hundred and thirty is it would be one thousand two hundred and thirty one thirty east coast east coast or canada .
i am that doesnt make any .
of course that make sense .
yeah you are six hour away from eight hour .
we we need to get play tectonics and time zone .
we need to all to have the same time zone and get on the same page .
there you go .
thanks for joining u from billy kira .
thats awesome .
all steve thank you once again for joining u . this ha been super fun .
thanks for staying up late with u . great talking with you both .
i will i will see steve .
hope i see you again in life .
kiki i will hopefully see you again in life because ill only be next week .
and if i do not then that is a real problem .
and everyone i will say we hope to see you again next week .
and in the meantime stay safe stay healthy stay curious and stay lucky .
thank you .
hello and welcome everyone to our weekly podcast broadcast of this weekend science .
ooh it is spooky and quiet in here .
i am the only one home .
are there noise in the house ?
this is this week in science .
we do our weekly podcast broadcast live streaming wednesday 8pm pacific time youtube facebook and twitch .
if you are here now please hit the like the thumb up all of the share and get u into those algorithm that we can be shared with everybody who want to watch live video streamed now .
also this is going to be edited if there are any issue troubleshooting etc .
itll be edited out for the final podcast version and you can find that all place that podcasts are found .
my goodness .
i am alone in the dark but i have nice spooky colored light .
thats what we are supposed to do here .
friend are you ready ?
are you ready for this science show ?
is my microphone going ?
yes flying out one host .
thats it tonight but we have a guest it is going to be fantastic .
it always is fantastic .
it is time .
i am waiting for the thumb up from the audience .
let do this .
i am already here let start the show in three two this is twist .
this week in science episode number nine hundred and ninety two recorded on wednesday october 30th two thousand and twenty four .
science for the greater good .
hey everyone i am dr. kiki and tonight it is a spooky evening .
it is almost spooky .
it is the day before spooky .
we are going to fill your head with reanimation the flip side and scary clown .
but first disclaimer disclaimer disclaimer .
the weather is storming .
the fire are warming .
the cauldron to boil .
wild wind drive rain and unknown howl drive fear through your brain .
the season of the witch is upon u and vision of ghoul haunt u a child chant their refrain .
trick or treat .
trick or treat .
get your ballot in by next tuesday .
and remember that even on twisawine weve got good science for you here on this week in science coming up next .
ive got the mind that can not get enough .
i want to learn everything .
i want to fill it all up with new discovery that happen every day of the week .
there only one place to go to find the knowledge i seek .
i want to know whats happening .
whats happening .
whats happening this week in science .
whats happening .
whats happening this week in science .
good science to everyone .
welcome to another episode of this week in science .
and thank you much for joining u for this wonderful twisawine episode of this week in science .
i am alone in the podcast tonight to bring you the science but i will be joined by a guest .
we have an interview with juliana tafour from the greater good science center at uc berkeley .
on this week show i have a few quick story for you about mirroring life reanimating virus and scary clown .
why do not we them ?
there science on that now .
people want to know why do not we scary clown ?
what is it about them ?
what happened to you that made you not the clown everybody ?
everyone ha a story .
everyone ha a story .
a we jump into the story tonight i do want to remind all of you that subscribing to twis a a podcast you can find u on your favorite podcast platform .
we also stream live wednesday eight p.m. pacific time youtube facebook and twitch .
and if you look for this week in science or twis science on social platform or these platform i told you about you are going to find u . if it is too much information for you remember that our website is twis.org .
and you can find lot of great information there show note .
and you can contact u through comment and all sort of thing that .
we hope that you are doing it .
come on .
my gosh it is the end of october .
but i am not scared .
it is time for science .
we are going to dive in here .
into the mirror land first .
what do when i am talking about the mirror land ?
it is not the inside out .
it is not the upside down .
it is alice in wonderland stepping through the mirror into the flip side of the world .
a me now i am flipped .
a i see myself i am putting my hand up but maybe my left hand is coming up or it look my left hand is coming up and waving at you .
it is my hand .
thats the way that the camera work and the way that it put u forward to the world .
thats what i am seeing a i am looking at this camera and at this screen .
and you are seeing me flipped .
but if we are looking in a regular mirror your hand should come up to match it evenly ?
even stevens everything match .
how doe that work ?
my goodness light reflection thats a whole other story .
but in the molecular world whats fascinating is that we do not do that .
we do have these handed molecule .
they are called enantiomer .
and if you were to pick your left hand up and then your hand and turn it over .
it is back to front front to back .
that is not an enantiomer .
they are opposite of each other and flipped around one of the vertex .
everything or most thing in life are handed in one way or another .
and most of the molecule are one of these enantiomer in biology .
at one point chemistry which make when molecule are created make molecule of the left handed form and the handed form .
and they go about their business being created for whatever reason a molecular reaction occur .
in biology thing got handed the same way that the majority of people are handed .
and do not let that teacher in school tell you get your handed .
if you are left handed thats not going to work out very for you in the long run .
now for biology though it work out great because we have molecule that fit together puzzle piece because of this handedness .
the handedness allows u to have dna .
and then the dna ha copy of different molecule that fit with them thats called rna .
and the rna can then go and become a copyish of the dna .
it get the dna it is transcribed we call it when it turn into rna .
the rna get carried to a ribosome and then it get turned into amino acid .
those amino acid become protein .
and then we say that the dna the gene have been translated into the protein that are active within our body and allow u to function .
now some thing in the nucleus of cell do not go on to become protein .
they stay rna .
they are rna enzyme .
rna can make thing happen within the nucleus of the cell .
the rna enzyme can cause gene to be transcribed more or le .
the rna enzyme can change function of thing within the nucleus itself .
they can move outside of the cell and go do other thing altogether .
rna is this cool thing .
it doe it own thing .
and scientist think that rna may have been the precursor to dna that maybe rna came first .
and if rna came first how did it start making itself ?
one of the thing for life is selfreplication .
if molecule can selfreplicate keep copying copying copying copying they are capable of making new form of being used to create new molecule to cause all the stuff that happens in our cell for new life to form for it to go on and on and on and on .
researcher at the salk institute and also at upv euha a research group the metal catalysis and organocatalysis research group at the rovira and virgilie university and also at the university of the basque country .
researcher have published a couple of separate study but each of them are investigating this handedness of molecule and how to do what biology is .
how do we get molecule to be lefthanded or handed and then possibly use those in antiimmers a therapeutic agent ?
and even further the work at the salk institute which i absolutely absolutely enamored of is theyve worked on these rna enzyme .
it is a selfreplicating system using rna with these mirror image and potentially this is one of the step that is necessary for molecule rna to perpetuate themselves and for function that go on to become life to even become possible .
i am very excited about this particular study .
we are in a mirror world we live in it already but if we can create enantiomer protein the fascinating aspect of this therapeutically is our body may not respond to certain enantiomer and will not be this is dangerous because it is not the handedness .
maybe they will not recognize them and break them down in the same way that they would the other mirror image of them .
it is possible that these mirror image enzyme and molecule and selfperpetuating system could be used for benefit in our own health system moving forward .
well go from our scary mirror world to the benefit of these rna molecule .
and now i am going to move on from these handed lefthanded rna bit to another study about pregnancy because we are talking about life .
why wouldnt i move on to pregnancy ?
but this is a scary pregnancy story .
did that when you become pregnant a lot of you out there are not of the uterine persuasion .
maybe you are not going to become pregnant but people become pregnant .
and when they do it ha been discovered that something hidden in our dna awakens is reanimated .
what are you talking about ?
we know that there are silent portion of dna that come from old virus that get activated to create the placenta .
and additionally this particular process that wa studied researcher from the u.s. and germany studying mouse found an immune response that lead to an increase in red blood cell production .
the researcher were thats interesting. . the placenta the body we need more red blood cell during this period of time .
this is pretty important but shouldnt the immune system be shutting down this viral production of protein of gene ?
whats going on here ?
obviously there is some importance to these bit of dna that have been historically called junk dna because they do not become active unless they are triggered by very specific instance for instance pregnancy .
they took these pregnant mouse and they looked to see what happened when they turned off the ability of this particular system to work and the mouse became anemic and their pregnancy failed .
they tested this in human a and they found the same system becomes activated in human who become pregnant .
there are these retro transposon is what they are called .
these bit of dna that got stuck into our dna these gene that got stuck into our dna once upon a time .
and in doing this they got transposed over and over again and made copy were made they were maybe inverted and turned around .
the dna kept copying them .
why did not they get erased ?
why werent they cut up ?
sometimes i do not know i have a junk drawer but i do go through it and clean it out occasionally .
and biology is most likely going to do that if it can .
we know that we have these retro transposon they are very important .
and now that we have determined that these junk dna segment of code from little virus can be triggered by very specific reprogramming or restructuring instance that they can be incredibly important .
and these viral infection passed down from our ancestor are important because they are involved in pregnancy .
theyve only shown it far in this blood forming system but they think that there are other stem cell that coopt these retro transposon and immune sensor a during tissue regeneration .
how do we know how much of this is being allowed by the immune system ?
how much of this is being blocked by the immune system ?
is this part of some of the disease related to pregnancy ?
there much that we do not understand .
this research wa published in science magazine this last week .
and understanding it could help u figure out anemia during pregnancy and lead to more healthy pregnancy if we can figure it out .
all my last story because once we go from pregnant mom of course we are going to go to the kid and all those kid birthday party with the clown .
i know everyone ha a story out there .
this is a phenomenon known a the fear of clown .
this is our word of the day everyone if you want to remember this word .
and this fear is present in adult also in child .
the research that wa published researcher enacted the fear of clown questionnaire .
thats the fear of clown questionnaire .
using this fear of clown questionnaire they had a sample of nine hundred and eighty seven people between eighteen and seventy seven year of age .
they discovered that the individual in this study and these are people in south wale people in south wale this study wa taken into place at university of south wale .
the researcher found that woman are more afraid of clown than men .
we do not know exactly why that is .
we also know that a lot of people are afraid of clown because of traumatic experience .
but what is it that lead to the traumatic experience ?
at least half of the respondent had a fear of clown with five being extremely afraid of clown .
and this is higher than injection fear needle phobia three fear of height two.eight a fear of closed space twenty two.two and a fear of flying is only one.three of people .
this is a fairly in their sample a fairly high amount although this is fewer than onezero people .
it can be taken with a grain of salt .
however how do the origin of this fear come into play ?
and they now have a new set of question a explanation for the origin of our fear of clown .
the makeup is uncanny valley .
it is doll or mannequin .
they do not look quite human .
and that eerie or unsettling feeling occurs due to the makeup .
the exaggerated facial feature convey a direct sense of threat .
the big eye the big mouth everything is threatening a opposed to friendly even though the big mouth is supposed to be friendly .
this one is interesting .
the clown makeup hide emotional signal and creates uncertainty for people .
maybe it is that uncertainty about what is going to be coming .
for the color of clown makeup reminds u of death infection or blood injury and evokes disgust or avoidance .
this is a fascinating one .
is it the red color ?
the i do not know .
i am not going to go any further on that one but this is an interesting question to look into .
five clown unpredictable behavior make people uncomfortable .
fear of clown ha been learned from other people .
and maybe those portrayal are again teaching through society .
and then i said lot of people have a frightening experience with a clown .
they discovered through their work that this even though a lot of people have scary experience that wa the lowest level of agreement .
this is not the explanation for why most people have a fear of the clown .
they discovered that for a lot of people the negative portrayal of clown in popular culture wa a big factor in leading to their fear .
maybe ronald mcdonalds i do not know maybe pennywise i am not sure whatever .
but the hidden emotional signal wa what they found a the largest factor in their research when they asked people question related to all of their question .
they discovered that it wa because the clown true face are hidden .
and we do not understand the emotional intent and there uncertainty .
we do not know whether they are angry or sad or whether they are happy .
we do not know whats going to happen .
maybe that lead into other aspect of their their behavior and what we think about them .
is it the makeup ?
whats going on with clown everybody ?
i am not going to be afraid of clown although maybe i am not going to watch stephen king it anytime soon .
this is this week in science .
thank you much for joining me for this episode .
while i have been running down a couple of story related to our twistaweed celebration it is time for me to bring a guest into the show that we can have a good conversation .
it is time for that .
before i do i want to say thanks everyone for watching .
if you are enjoying the show make sure to share with a friend .
you can head over to twist.org and click on our patreon link .
thats where you can help support the show a part of our community .
if you are interested in merchandise there some holiday coming up pretty soon .
you can support the show through our zazzle store .
go to twist.org and click either on the patreon link or the zazzle link or both and take yourself down that twist rabbit hole .
can not do it without you .
thank you much for your support .
coming on back it is time for more this week in science .
it is time for me to introduce our guest for the evening .
our guest tonight is juliana tufour .
and juliana is the inaugural director of bridging difference program at uc berkeley greater good science center a colombian american .
her work focus on strengthening social connection across line of race religion culture politics and more in order to foster a culture of understanding and belonging in the united state and beyond .
juliana welcome to the show .
thank you much for joining me .
it is good to be here .
thank you for the invite .
you are welcome .
it is a joy to be able to get you on the show to talk about some stuff that ive personally been working on in my own science communication work and my own life because it is it is time for that .
how are you feeling ?
thank you for asking .
yeah i decided month ago that i wanted to do something about the anxiety that i wa sure to feel around this time .
i decided to launch this seven day challenge a part of a campaign for connection .
at the greater good science center we have been not campaigning for a candidate but campaigning for connection .
and thats not because we do not believe in who should be the winner of this election ?
we are not into mushy middle ground and flattening of identity .
we are who we are .
and from that point forward weve reached difference .
but i knew myself and i knew that i needed to do this to not fall into the pattern of the news cycle and the constant update and the bickering and the fear response that naturally our body go to .
it is wonderful to have an outlet and be busy that i can not do much .
that could be part of it ?
you do not have time to think about all the emotional stuff and go down the rabbit hole and circle down the drain of emotion .
but what is this seven day campaign and what brought you to starting it ?
whats going on and howd you get here ?
yeah absolutely .
i do want to acknowledge that yes although i have been super busy it is heartbreaking ?
to see the current state of division and polarization and especially the rhetoric that is set on dividing u and turning u into them and them into u . and for many me who devote our life to this work it is heartdrenching ?
and thank you for popping up the campaign for connection .
some of the same reason that we are seeing now ?
but in two thousand and sixteen for the first time a long a i could remember i think the bickering and the fear wa strong that i wanted to attempt to understand people who i wa having a hard time understanding .
and all i could feel wa this othering is leading to more othering in my own life .
and those are complex and people call them trigger issue people will call them the hot button contested controversial topic in our politics .
thats something people say do not talk about religion or politics at the dinner table .
have you always talked about religion and politics at the dinner table ?
yeah for me i think i grew up hearing over and over again that people had story that people were made of story that we were all unique and different a a result of our story .
and that wa repeated to me much .
i think it wa part of how my dad saw the world and invited u to see the world maybe intentionally maybe unintentionally i do not know .
but he would be the type that when we would drive past the bus stop full of people he would always turn to u and be look at all those people look at all those story .
yeah it is the question of how can you if where somebody came from ?
yeah you said dr. kiki i run the bridging difference program at the greater good science center and we translate research to practice for those of you who know who we are and what we do at the greater good and it is based out of uc berkeley .
and the translation of the science of human connection how is it that across our difference we can still expand our circle of concern for people who might be out of our group or different from u and thats what we do every day of our life .
this campaign for connection is a little part of what we do within the bridging program .
we have program in higher ed and in community .
all of that is true but there hope there truly hope in that seventy five of american believe it is important to hear different political view even when they do not agree with all of them .
seventy five of american desire a shift in political discourse and believe that moving beyond political hostility and divisiveness is a positive step forward .
we are tapping into this exhausted majority group that is often not the loudest group ?
it is not the group we are hearing from in social medium it is not the group that is informing this perception of the reality that we think we all live in which is divided and hopelessly divided ?
it is a group thats quieter thats truly exhausted and tough out and we are providing them with sciencebased skill that they know that this is possible that they see example of this being possible and they can try it out .
and at the core of it truly is that division hurt u . we want people to know that science also tell u that it hurt not only our relationship a we all know and have experience but it hurt our being .
and obviously i think we are all aware that division also hurt the very fabric of our democracy .
there the division is one thing but then the absolute polarization thats been occurring is another aspect to it that extreme the rift growing ?
we can have disagreement we can have thing i can want something that you do not want but if we can not talk about it here the question is how is science helping here ?
what science is there that suggests that there are method or way forward ?
for u in the bridging difference program it all started with a bridging difference playbook where we have fourteen sciencebased skill for bridging difference and the playbook continues to grow .
some of those skill which we are promoting and sharing a part of the campaign involve thing that you can do at the intrapersonal level you can do yourself to either get yourself ready or to reset or after youve engaged with someone .
they are interpersonal skill that you can have with someone else and then there intergroup skill which are skill that we teach for people who are more bridgeers for people who are bringing folk together actively .
do they pot or not ?
yeah it is that is not where i would have started .
how interesting ?
no yeah because what it doe is it tap into our fear of response and fear of broccoli .
it almost hap our brain when we are encounter or encounter threat or fear and our amygdala is reacting we tap into that by asking ourselves these question that then in turn make u see the person a another human with unique quality and trait we do ?
yeah and then you ask is a hot dog a sandwich ?
and the debate begin .
yeah exactly .
yeah and thats thats an easy one .
ill tell you about a particular study also involving the skill of seeing the person and not the label or ive also called it in the past humanizing not categorizing .
i think in our bridging difference playbook we call it something else but ive moved away from that title .
but the idea here there wa another study that introduced this character fictitious character named alex to people .
and some people were told alex wa a democrat or a republican .
and others were told shes a democrat or a republican but here what she ha for breakfast .
and here where she work and here are detail of her personal life her family .
and again what they found wa that for those who knew yes her political party but also these personal detail about her from her social medium feed they were able to not have warmer feeling towards her although they still disagreed with her political position .
it is all about getting to know the personal detail and how that begin to create war that we can then engage in a different way .
thats one for starter but we can continue talking about others .
no i think it is a somebody who ha a bit of neurodivergence and is busily trying to remember somebody name and go through my mental trick when i meet somebody in person to remember their name .
oftentimes there are other bit and piece of information that are lost and because i am trying to remember their name .
and i am basing a lot on behavior and how people are acting physically their face their face facial expression and their body language .
is there any science beyond the actual information about people life into how we can how we can see other people and view them a human other people u a not other and view them with compassion .
yeah there there several thing that i can point to but i guess whats most might be a little off script from your playbook but yeah yeah yeah .
i guess i guess whats most present a you ask that question is the power of listening which is one that i always gravitate towards .
it wa also my entryway into this work and i truly love it .
and you have a ted talk or tedx talk on listening .
it wa great .
yeah but i listening with compassion for a number of reason and it is and it is i do not think it directly answer your question .
i wanted a good topic .
go ahead you can touch and turn .
it is fabulous .
i will remind me about your question which wa more connected to what we can see. ?
and i guess thats why listening wa present because because there much we can see when we listen .
there much we can grasp that perhaps we did not know wa there .
and we are talking about this deep listening a in almost listening with the intent to cocreate listening with the intent to open your heart to someone and allow in in the listening for them to be seen for them to make sense of their story .
when we listen we are listening to not only word but you said we are listening to body gesture movement we are listening to energy we want to get spiritual .
we listen to much more than word which is i think why your question led me to listening .
and and then there also all the science of listening .
but i want to whats present now is this beautiful quote by david augsberger .
it is a quote i love and i often cite but in this book old book called carrying enough to confront but he say being listened to is close to being loved that for the average percent they are almost indistinguishable .
that is a big one .
thats strong .
it make you pause for a minute because it tap into something we all know and understand which is this fundamental need desire that we all have to be listened to .
and and also something thats present for all of u which is we are not listened to very much ?
and especially in these divisive time we feel we are not listened to we are not understood we are not seen .
i want to i want to mention the science of listening and the power of the science of listening because people do not know it have heard of it .
and it start plain and simple if we want to be understood we should truly start by listening more closely to folk .
the question is why ?
that sound good but why ?
what doe science tell u about it ?
and what science tell u is that when we listen we are perceived immediately are perceived by the other person the person who listening to u who we are listening to a more trustworthy .
and it also encourages our conversation partner to be more openminded and to be le defensive .
and in some case science ha also shown le focus on their selfinterest .
it is this powerful powerful technique that if you enter a conversation with this openness and willingness to listen not necessarily because you will open the other person to listen to you but because you want to serve them .
and what end up happening is you transform them you transform how they see you how they engage with you .
it is powerful .
it is a secret secret .
the secret oops sorry i am taking my microphone i am excited .
the secret to social interaction is listening .
who knew ?
when you are and then there the neuroscience of it a that when you are listening you are doing the physical behavioral manifestation of paying attention .
and that it lead to a synchronization and it help to benefit that synchronization of neural pathway between individual .
yes yes i love that .
and it is powerful to be reminded of that .
yes and that tie back to your question .
listening more than word listening to body and listening to brain .
what are we listening ?
yeah one of the hardest part though that we have seen much that ive learned about in research having been a neuroscientist and i love all this stuff interpersonal neuroscience i think it is fun .
but the connection between u very often though it is the one person is trying to predict the brain of a one person is trying to predict where the other person brain is going to go .
and the synchronization is occurring because of eye blink and auditory signal and that prediction engine that our brain are .
and but at the same time because of the prediction we can get caught up in what we think is going to be coming .
and what we think we have to say next that we are not paying attention to what is coming out of the other person mouth .
and i think thats where the neuroscience of it is we got to break that pattern that behavioral pattern ?
and we have this framework for compassionate listening .
and thats thats one of the thing we say ?
are you listening focused on the conversation ?
almost mentally anchoring on what the speaker is saying without necessarily preparing a response in your mind ?
and this awareness that when we do that we are automatically not present anymore .
we have lost it .
we are not listening listening in it full fullness of the word ?
then we add listening with compassion or active listening .
but but why do we need to when you listen you listen .
but yeah among the thing we share when when inviting folk to listen in addition to being present being curious starting with open ended question and encouraging the other person to share more a a affirming feeling and intention and almost experience ?
and affirming doe not mean agreeing with you are validating what the person went through .
you are acknowledging their emotion you are acknowledging their life story .
and then back to neuroscience this connection at the at the empathy level ?
trying to communicate to them that you truly understand why they feel the way they feel although you may not agree with it .
but you are agreeing with their experience and affirming them also .
and engage body language which i think you touched on a ?
listening to your body eye contact nodding open posture all of that speaks and say something also about the way that you listen .
there how we listen and also how we are coming into conversation or into interaction online or off trying to consider people a other human being a opposed to combatant .
are there any other specific method or research finding that you want to focus on ?
there there one that i feel is le obvious to most folk called self distancing .
when conversation get heated there this tendency to get cut up in our own thought and emotion .
and how much that prevents u from engaging constructively .
never never experienced that before .
you must not from this world .
yeah self distancing encourages u to view ourselves from an outsider perspective almost by thinking about yourself in the third person .
if i am getting angry about something instead of asking myself i am angry ?
i would take a step back and i would ask myself why ?
why is juliana angry ?
what about this is making her angry ?
what science show u is that this simple change in pronoun allows u to take a beat and zoom out and see the conversation almost from an outsider perspective i said and regain clarity and come back .
but no research .
doe the research suggest that it is that we can do this in the moment ?
is this something that take a lot of work to get good at ?
what we say is you would start this practice when math tension are not the highest when maybe you catch yourself seeing a post on social medium that is disturbing but you do not feel you are in the midst of it ?
and that a you practice and progressively get more comfortable doing this because it feel a little bit weird at first that when you are in a more heated conversation you are then able to go back to my body know how to do this .
ive tried this out before .
ive got the muscle for it ?
yeah we do recommend starting at a lower intensity. . lower risk level .
yeah absolutely .
and yeah and for example for campaign for connection when we are inviting people to try this out we are also asking people to set reminder on their phone and remind themselves during the day to pause .
we could do that over the next week ?
when we are caught up and anxious and stressed out and fearful of the election result if we pause for a few moment during the day and ask ourselves how is dr. kiki feeling ? .
it may seem awkward at first but it is this idea of this quick checkin and how can how that can help you reinforce the habit of observing rather than being absorbed by your emotion .
an invitation to check it out .
yeah all of it is an invitation .
and i and in this i hope that our listener can find some thing that they find useful ?
that maybe not everything is something they want to apply or can apply or these are not difficult thing to put into use in your own life .
but at the same time i wa talking with a friend the other day and she wa talking about the election and talking about the conversation with somebody else and how emotional she got and how she had to stop the conversation .
and there were no more spoon .
there no more mental energy to be able to even check in in that moment to keep the conversation going ?
but yeah i want to say to what you are saying and what your friend experienced and expressed to you bridging is not without risk ?
in that you do expose vulnerability .
we do say that it is not necessarily the thing for every person in every situation. . and that there are some people who maybe will not be bridge builder or not be bridge builder now .
and thats too .
what we go by is a long a someone opposing belief is not denying your existence and if respect is present then we can have these conversation and or enter into cooperation or collaboration across our difference because it is not only about conversation .
but it is important to remember that .
it is .
there in science communication we talk about it a lot which is the common method of giving scientific information which ha led to a lot of issue through the pandemic and also related to public health issue moving forward which is this delivering information .
and then you need to believe me and i am .
and then a soon a anyone try to come back with any commentary or debate it is an immediate an immediate assumption that that person is denying who they are the scientist .
social medium there is a lot of that for different individual and i am not going to deny that thats not going on .
social medium is a whole bag of worm .
all of a sudden we think thats and normal and fine and yeah social medium is complex .
i do want to say that what we know from science going back to why why even bridge ?
close mind ?
we know that prejudice and fear about the other any other elevates stress .
we also know that student feel safer le bullied and le lonely and more ethically integrated school .
we know it is good for family because many of u experience that we have a strange family member or we are no longer doing thanksgiving dinner .
there is research that point to thanksgiving dinner being a whole hour shorter .
and thats coming up .
and then and then taking it to workplace ?
if you want to deal with colleague who are different from you we do know that diverse team perform better with the skill and condition .
it is not about throwing a bunch of people who are different in a room and having them cooperate .
but but some of the skill are some of the skill we talk about ?
listening with compassion and truly seeking to understand a person story and self distancing if you need to selfregulate and come back to a conversation .
and i want to talk to you for the sake of connecting with you which is something that a lot of people may be inclined to do .
but if you are not inclined to do that and you still have to collaborate and find common goal with colleague because you have a joint project that you need to get out then thats another good reason to need to know how to collaborate across line of difference .
and and what we know about that is that when we understand that we need each other to achieve thing that are important to different group it may be the sale department and the marketing department of a company ?
working jointly we know that we shift from seeing people a adversary to collaborator .
and if nothing else for efficiency and improved process and and achieving thing that are important to u whether it is work wise or improving the quality of education of our child ?
and at board meeting being able to come together with folk who are different from you to achieve that goal .
and i think the the data that you brought up at the very beginning with the seventy five of people that is across party line thats across different age group and sex and seventy five of people would to bridge are tired of all of this .
but yeah there is a common there a commonality there .
there is and i think thats common goal .
there is .
and id to emphasize that because i can stay in the we are hopelessly divided ?
and and we will not reach anyone with that rhetoric because people are already tapped out .
know even though there a negativity bias in people if there is not hope people do not want to do it .
there nothing there nothing people are though i can not do anything about it whatever .
whats the hope ?
and a reminder that across the political spectrum research ha shown u that democrat and republican value or conservatism liberal to not give it a label .
everything is this .
come on everything is binary .
and that we value different thing ?
the idea is that a you are having a conversation with someone that you understand is different from you getting at the root of what is what value is most important to you ?
or what experience have shaped value that are more important to you ?
and how that give you clue a to how to approach them on this thing that also matter to you through the lens of what matter to them .
and and how that begin to shift the conversation not only because they feel seen but also because you are speaking their language .
not with the intent of convincing them .
no but to connect ?
to have a conversation and not fight .
and saying i understand that you value x ?
it tie back to the being seen and being heard ?
you listen to them and you understood them .
you understood this that is important to them .
and from that place you are attempting to connect with something that matter to you .
yeah i think that i think thats a big one .
these are all big .
they are not easy either because often the perspective the value based perspective is sometimes it is hard to try and figure out where someone else is coming from what could possibly how to put yourself in their shoe how to think in a way thats similar .
and i find that i think thats often a stumbling block .
do you find that people going through these method and work that youve been working with ?
do other people have this stumbling block ?
and have there been way to move past it ?
i think the first stumbling block is whether we want to engage or not .
especially because we feel threatened ?
we feel that how can i engage with this group that doesnt see me or that belief in policy that will disregard my group entirely .
and it is real .
when it come to politics it is real .
there are real consequence and it is hard because you are not only talking at the level of i am this group identity group and i want to connect with the other identity group .
and we are different people at the level of identity .
i think when it come to politics and policy that end up impacting our life it is more complex .
the idea is that the more that we do this and again if you are in a position to want to do it where you are not being disrespected where your sense of being identity is not at stake you are not being dehumanized ?
and you are not in harm way ?
a a matter of engaging in this conversation .
those are very important thing to include in that assessment ?
yeah for sure .
thats the motivation need to be .
and then the other thing i will say is it is not always about the long bridge ?
the long bridge of i am connecting with someone who is very different from me who also ha a political position very different from me and come from a very different part of the country from it ?
the longest bridge .
the idea is to maybe start with shorter bridge .
if you do not feel ready to go the long bridge all at once walk the long bridge all at once .
and and maybe this look engaging with a family member although those are easy either ?
but it is something that you are already close to .
close to you within a similar not equal but similar context lived experience someone who love you ?
and sometimes they can be candid but at least you have a lot of freedom .
yeah i think i think your comment having the motivation is important a because that is the basis .
having the energy having the situation and then having the motivation .
because we do not have the motivation then the bridge is going to be faulty .
it is going to break and fall down .
trust is going to be broken at some point .
yeah but we also find that motivation alone is not enough ?
there need to be skill and awareness of skill that you can bring in and and and latch onto in order to to be able to have real productive conversation .
and then the more you do it and the more you figure out that hey i listen and the wall came down and then they were listening and maybe we did not agree but we got to know each other better .
and the more you experience moment of of true connection the more you want to do it the more you understand that this this work .
and it may not work with everyone ?
and thats the other thing not everyone will want to bridge with you either .
and thats .
you you also have to know that .
but sometimes it is it is to walk away ?
to protect yourself .
it is to let it go entirely this is not work thats done by demand it is not we convert it to bridge builder and we will forever in every situation all the time have to build bridge .
no not even people who work with this stuff and have all the skill in the toolbox should do that .
it is not again work thats done by demand .
and if there is not openness on the other side and willingness to engage and if you feel at risk or threatened by a situation you walk away .
yeah ive had to walk away of situation that myself .
yeah i think it is knowing that you are that there are scientifically based tool that are they have been practiced and they are used there a a toolbox thats available that people can learn about and use and then apply if they have the situation .
if everything aligns correctly they can try .
and if you can try thats the first step .
and yeah and i to remind people that yes we are caught in these binary of you are this i am that .
but there are thing we share .
if nothing else using that a a starting point to seek to understand what is it that we might share despite our difference a a broader identity that might unite u that might allow u to step back from this group in group mentality .
and there a cool study around this with manchester united soccer team and soccer fan .
yeah we want to know .
thats thats thats high stake .
there violence that occurs at these soccer match at the football match ?
the team the fan other each other and there a lot of aggression .
yeah a lot of passion .
and emotion run high mentality to .
the study involved bringing these soccer fan together and having them think of the team manchester united and the win of manchester united and the passion and love for the team itself .
and then folk were sent across the parking lot and they encountered in some case someone who wa wearing manchester united shirt and other case someone who wa wearing a liverpool shirt the rival team .
yeah they repeated the experiment also with manchester united fan .
but instead of thinking of the team itself they were made to think of football fan in general .
and their identity a people who love or not football soccer in spanish football football their identity a soccer fan and what it meant to be with other soccer fan and shared experience around being a soccer fan etc .
and then again there wa a a a parking lot person in need sometimes manchester united jersey sometimes liverpool jersey .
and in that case it changed when they encountered the person in need they helped the person wearing the manchester united jersey a much a they helped the person wearing the rival team jersey .
yeah it wa the awareness and the appreciation of being in it together .
and this is a thing that we share .
and yeah thats beautiful .
and a david ha is saying in our chat now it sound a ted lasso episode to me which thank goodness for ted lasso .
that wa we all needed that one .
i love that .
narrow identity a a fan of a particular team versus broader identity .
and what that doe to u in term of spreading more kindness and being more generous to others with that minor prompting .
i want folk to know and understand that thats available to all of u minor prompting in our mind in our own life in the life of others it doesnt take much .
what unites u is their broader shared identity ?
we can go back to pea and carrot doesnt matter .
they are starchy vegetable .
we all eat starchy vegetable .
all the way from back to humanizing folk to finding something bigger that that what is that ?
i love that .
and i want to say thank you for this conversation and speaking with me for all this time .
it is been wonderful to hear all of these idea and the science behind them and the way that people can use them .
and i hope that our listener my listener our listener can take some of these thing and take them into the next week into thanksgiving into the next year .
and in the meantime would you people to go to the campaign for connection website ?
is this something that is ongoing that youd people to take a look at and try out ?
and what else can people do and where can they find you ?
thank you .
our campaign for connection launched and it is going to be going into the new year .
a soon a people sign up they will get seven day of skill to practice .
it is a skill a day in their inbox with tool and resource to support them a a an instagram group where people can join and comment or not instagram group instagram post where people can join and comment and connect with other shared experience .
and where people can go is there a tiny url .
tinyurl.com backslash number seven day with dcaps challenge with ccaps twenty four .
seven day challenge twenty four .
and i can share typing it out now and hopefully i typed it correctly .
and i can repeat it .
number seven dcaps for day ccaps for challenge twenty four .
it is a tiny url .
and if you check u out at instagram we are either at greater good mag which is the official greater good science center account .
and then we also created for bridging difference an account called at ggse bridging difference .
gg greater good s science center .
bridging difference .
got that one in the instagrams .
i can bring that one up .
yeah ive been trying to do these minute and a half video to invite people to practice the skill .
youll see youll see some of those here a in our instagram .
we are in day three going into day four .
but when you join you will have your your own personal experience where each day youll get a different skill .
you havent missed out on anything .
there are place that people can go .
there are thing that they can do .
this can be an ongoing effort .
and it can be a new effort or something that accentuates what theyve already been doing if they are working on this .
whats next for you ?
i know sleeping a lot after this election .
yeah no weve been busy getting out in the world .
i am very grateful for an amazing team and all of their support .
it is been a fantastic team effort .
yeah we have a statewide initiative in the state of colorado which is keeping me busy to turn colorado help make colorado a state where everyone feel they belong across all line of difference .
and thats exciting work in community .
thank you .
yeah it is hosted the denver foundation .
we are the implementation partner for this initiative .
and currently we are training fifteen organization and practitioner on the ground who are bringing folk together across the princess .
and their work is about to begin a two year cycle of implementation where we will also accompany them and technical assistance .
exciting to see how our work begin to spread in community and truly have an impact in people life .
we also have a lot of work that we do in the higher education space a part of our learning fellowship .
far weve trained and worked have the privilege of working with two hundred and fifty university across the country equipping them with some of the science space skill for bridging difference that they can implement it in their university and university white program and curriculum .
and we are going to do that too .
and obviously post october 7th last year there been much need at university across the country .
our work there ha only intensified and we continue to show up in these space where we may be needed .
but there a huge need .
and i i hope that the work in colorado go because i can see it becoming a model for other state if it is if it can be implemented over the next two year over in the different community with the different group that you are bringing together .
i i see this network building and community building a such a huge part of our social network ?
our social fabric and fixing all of those hole in the torn sock and a little bit of darning a opposed to a opposed to rending .
yeah i hope i hope it i hope it is i hope it go and i can not wait to hear how it go .
thank you .
yeah we are we are doing the best to document a a measure and evaluate each and every single one of the program that we can learn what is working what is not working and and continue iterating ?
we are this this work is ever growing and and it is exciting to apply the science to to these very real sometimes visceral scenario with in community with folk who are at it and and understand all the nuance of it .
the evaluation aspect that is science ?
it is the iteration it is also engineering ?
it is taking what you are learning bringing it back in evaluating going this is what we need to fix this is what we need to do how can we do it better ?
version two or this this version go out this way and this version go out that way .
different group need different version and you start to figure out how it work but we can not ever do that without the process thank you .
thats thats yeah yeah .
and i think well be moving more towards equipping folk who also want to do this work but do not necessarily have the tool yet .
thank you and if anyone ha a specific thought or question or if this move something in them and theyd to chat on the side please email me i am at juliana.taphor at berkeley.edu id love to hear from you and support you .
thank you much .
thank you for joining me it is been wonderful to speak with you .
likewise have a great night .
all everybody this is this week in science we have been having an amazing interview with juliana tafour from the greater good science center and i said i will be putting all the link from everything that she referenced in our show note to go on our website twist.org .
i think weve made it to the end of the show .
it happened yes we did it we made it to the end of the show i want to say thank you to all of you for joining u for another episode of twist .
thank you for being here and for enjoying the twissowine science and the good social connecting science .
ooh exciting time !
now i am going to say all the thing on next week we are going to be back with another show will there be cohosts ?
i do not know ill be here will i ?
probably it is going to be the first week of november .
