whats up guy and welcome back to the honest tattooer podcast .
my name is john messa i am with my cohost matt riano .
what up what up what up ?
our boi g money in the house .
thats good .
our guest today ha been in the tattoo industry for several decade and it is a very very known figure in the world of tattooing and especially probably known a the father of dark art in tattooing .
and i know ?
thats what i should hit it .
but welcome pal booth to the podcast man .
thanks man .
thanks for having me .
no thanks much for coming by .
for the people that do not know you let them know where you are from how long youve been tattooing and what tattoo do you do ?
i am paul booth .
i am based out of new york city although now i am in new jersey since covid and ive been tattooing thirty six year now a of next week .
wow thirty six year .
when i wa nineteen i wa a repo man and i stole car for a living and i painted mural on hot rod and shit that an airbrush artist .
and i got this chick pregnant at nineteen and had the kid and i wa freaking out about it because i wa nineteen .
i wasnt ready to be a dad but i wasnt going to run away either .
my friend suggested i get her name tattooed on me to cope with it .
and i thought yeah thats a commitment maybe itll help .
i got her name tattooed on me and i got to customize the design and everything .
it wa wow this is neat .
the whole process blew me away .
the pain the ritual .
this wa your first tattoo ?
picking a design off the wall and customizing it .
and i fell in love with the whole thing .
i did not even think about it a a career .
i needed to know how to do it .
it wa simple a that .
and i picked it up .
i started drawing my tattoo and then i started hanging around the shop .
i paid him it wa five grand at the time .
back when you used to pay to apprentice .
it wa back before everyone wa giving shit away for free .
but i took the apprenticeship and within three month i wa tattooing .
and shortly after that i wa getting paid to do it .
and two and a half year later i wa managing the shop .
then i left i went to california my old man wa sick and needed me to try and take care of him .
i moved to california and it wa the first time i had .
i should say the shop i learned in wa a very traditional street shop .
design on the wall everything .
and coffee can for ashtray nailed to the wall .
nicotine stain on the flash the plastic over the flash .
indoor smoking wa that .
one thousand nine hundred and eighty eight .
can we expand this ?
you are the first person to ever mention acetate stencil .
for people who are young and do not know what that is explain what that is .
the only thing we had back then wa you take a sheet of plastic and you would scratch with a nail lay it over the design and scratch it in with a nail on the plastic .
and then youd grease the arm vaseline or menin speedstick .
you would powder charcoal powder thats scratched in design on the plastic and press it onto the skin .
and thats what you had for a stencil .
youd be lost .
but it taught you to be precise and efficient and not sloppy because the slightest wrong move and you lose your stencil .
yeah you got to think about that .
that taught me a lot .
your hand placement .
start at the bottom if you are handed and work your way up to the top left .
controlled wiping too .
you do not want to wipe all that away. . exactly .
thats how i learned by wrapping a paper towel around my tattoo hand .
and i would blot with my pinky a i worked .
and thats where that came from .
how many year into tattooing were you when you could say your vision of what you wanted your tattooing to be ?
that wa when i left the shop two and a half year later .
i moved to california .
that wa when all of a sudden i wa in a shop that the guy wa a hack .
and it wa a shop and it wa the only one in town that would have me .
i went there and i had all the freedom in the world to do whatever i wanted .
it took some of my friend that i made while i wa living there .
about a year and a half i wa there .
and i did some free tattoo on them and brought them to a show in anaheim .
it is my first tattoo convention .
and i got a bunch of attention .
i wa surprised .
i wasnt expecting anything .
but it wa the first time i had the freedom to take my own drawing and do it my way .
i did not have a bos looking over me get him out of the chair we are making money money money that thing .
i wa able to explore my art more after that .
i do not regret those two and a half three year that i had doing tasmanian devil and heart and rose .
i did not even complain at the time because i knew i needed to do it to build a foundation .
the first one wa an attempt at what wa on the wall and the last one wa ripped with vein .
and fivezero of them later .
i am sure some tweety bird were sprinkled in there .
how did the industry first embrace your work ?
because i feel your work wa completely different than what anybody else wa doing .
ive always been on my own trip not for any other reason but it is my art .
i do not know how else to do it .
i do my own thing .
pittsburgh ninety one convention .
and i went there i came home from california and my job wa not waiting for me a promised .
here the boss son moved home and took my seat and that wa that .
i wa doing tattoo party biker party kitchen magician shit to pay the bill .
but i did not have a shop to work in and i wanted to be in a shop again .
i went i had my girlfriend at the time i did a big back piece on her and brought her to the pittsburgh show to try and find a job .
what wa the back piece ?
and but she wa hot and at the time a hot chick and a good big tattoo couldnt fail .
yeah you can not miss it .
and that still work today .
and not that that wa the plan but it worked out that way .
and i brought her to the convention and she wa a hit and i couldnt believe it .
i wasnt expecting anything .
honestly because i wa doing my own freehand work i did not expect anyone to it .
if someone like it cool thats enough for me .
and it wa she couldnt walk five foot without another photo .
i won all these award i did not even plan on entering her but everyone wa insisting and all these trophy and shit .
and next thing i know shes on the cover of the next magazine .
and it wa funny because they put me and her on the inside of the cover stand in there .
she wa on the cover .
and everyone knew the tattoo from that but did not know who the hell i wa it wa a weird beginning .
but i got an interview the magazine embraced me and the artist that i looked up to jack rudy and guy that that were at the show in pittsburgh were inviting me to come to their shop .
and i am this kid out of nowhere .
i did not i did not know anybody or nothing .
and i had several of these people inviting me to do guest spot .
and i jumped on it .
i took my van and i toured the country by van a few time and learning a i went i probably learned more after i left that shop than what i learned traditionally a an apprentice .
i relearned everything from old people i wa meeting .
it wa great .
and then it went from touring the country to getting invited overseas .
my first international show wa amsterdam with hanky panky .
i do not remember what year .
a year or two after ninety one ninety two ninety three .
it wa ninety three i think .
then from there i launched into getting invited to convention in other place in europe .
which expanded to the world .
and ive been traveling the world for thirty year .
it is crazy .
anna tattoo is brought to you by tattoo smart .
they offer digital design tool for the professional tattooer helping you save time and make your client happy .
make sure to check out some of their best seller the spitch shade set the needle set advanced 3d body part and one of my personal favorite the snake kit .
with a vast collection of ready to use procreate flash stamp in a range of style including neotraditional ornamental illustrative japanese floral and more .
listener can use code honus20 at checkout to save twenty on any tattoo smart order .
out of the place that youve been to which one would you say is the most memorable ?
there wa that girl in ... i love thailand .
i love the country of ireland .
the people are a little too conservative for me there but a lot of catholicism which i do not vibe with .
yeah these kid do not know my history .
no they do not .
i am pretty known for having an extreme dislike for the church .
not god in particular religion and general ... organized structural religion .
i have trouble with all that .
but ive always had trouble with authority figure anyway i have the same problem with cop a lot too .
it extends throughout the whole collection .
when did last right come to be ?
last right started i think legitimized in ninety four .
maybe it wa ninety three .
started out a dark image and then came up with ... you decided to shift from traveling to ... i am going to settle down .
yeah i did not have ... if you look in the old magazine back then the early 90 they would put the artist name under the photo and where they are from .
where i wa from wa always terrarville or hell .
i did not have a shop the magazine would make up crazy place .
no one knew where i wa from .
thats cooler though .
it is pretty cool .
dark catacombs. . much probably looking at me what am i doing ?
thats awesome .
then that came to i need to settle a place somewhere for myself .
yeah for me it blew up fast that all i wa ever doing wa trying to keep up with it .
one thing i start by looking for a job with a tattoo on my girlfriend .
even within a couple year i am doing interview on the news in the middle of europe somewhere .
and i am all of a sudden i have a red carpet rolled down in front of me everywhere i go .
not all of a sudden but it took a few year .
but it turned into that .
some people never get to experience that at all .
it wa pretty peculiar .
i try through the year ive always beaten myself up enough to try and remain somewhat humble but i could be a dick if i wanted to .
the shit ive experienced in this career is i can not even talk to people about it because it sound bragging because it is out of the ordinary shit .
because look you go to convention and half the time at least back in the day they were funded by organized crime one way or another .
and id be all over the world and id be sitting down having dinner with all kind of people that would be questionable .
and i got to know a lot of them .
but what wa the point of that ?
i should have mentioned to you before we started i have memory problem .
no but we were talking about after traveling you decide to settle down and you start working on last right a your place to be. . last right i wanted to bring i always liked bringing people together minded people .
and i wanted to open a shop that represented dark art what i obviously do and did .
but also the aesthetic is my passion .
my shop wa always an extension of me .
thats how it got decorated and the decor is always over the top and dark and creepy .
but it extended first from a tattoo shop where i wa partly trying to advance in my career and open a shop .
i had much attention on me it only made sense to do .
and then some year after that i ended up adding an art gallery to it .
and thats when i wa driven .
the reason i opened the art gallery wa because i am an only child and ive got the syndrome bad .
i am somebody that if you say no to me i have a hard time with it .
it is what do you mean no ?
anyway i wa always told that we werent real artist because we worked on skin .
we werent recognized in the art world or considered we were scoffed at .
piss me off .
because youve been painting and oiled for a long time and your art is definitive you which ha a voice which i think is valuable in all of the art world outside of even tattooing .
did you try to get into gallery in the new york air scene ?
that wa what spurred me on to open a gallery wa because id walk into a gallery wearing rotten sneaker .
i got a wad of ten grand in my pocket ready to buy art .
but in the art world if you are not wearing the shoe you do not get any attention .
general rule of thumb they do not take you .
you do not have money .
and it would piss me off .
i did not the way people were rude and snobby in the art world .
i said what motherfucker ?
it is going to be a family business and a family oriented idea .
and it is going to be from tattoo artist .
you can kiss my as ?
the rebellion and the angst and the contempt that i am fueled by generally is what drove me to open the art gallery .
i think a lot of awesome thing came from that moment in tattooing .
and when you were doing all these thing one i think ive always taken that idea of creating a shop thats an extension of you .
and i feel you did that going to last right wa a memorable experience for anybody when they first entered from the beginning till it wa awesome .
thank you .
that wa the whole inspiration .
ive never been there but ive talked to enough people who have been there who describe the place in such detail .
my vision of it is pretty fucking cool .
yeah it is always been about the experience .
ive always said that a tattoo should be more than an improv improvisational moment or hey i am getting pulsively going to get a tattoo and run in a shop .
yeah thats street shop and thats cool .
not wrong with that .
but i wanted to take it a step further where it is a special day you mark down on your calendar and say hey it is last writes day .
and i tried to make the shop a whole experience for them horror movie playing and metal music or whatever have you dark music .
and i had a home theater built into my shop people could watch the horror movie .
and it wa very theatrical .
it wa called the last writes tattoo theater for a reason .
i had planned on but had no success at the time .
i am sure someone will probably steal this now but whatever .
i wanted to have a troupe of actor in the shop .
and i wanted two old italian lady that would come out and cry next to you while you are getting tattooed .
or a guy with a violin strolling through the shop or a vincent price character reading poe out of a book .
shit that all day .
every saturday wa going to be theatrical day .
but i never got the crew together .
yeah that sound a lot of work .
it is it would be fun writing the skit .
your first dark image it wa in the east village ?
and you were there for how many year ?
that place i wa there nine year i believe .
it wa from ninety one ?
from ninety no no ninety one wa when i named last ninety four wa when i named last right but it wasnt a shop yet .
ninety eight i opened up in new york when it legalized. . and id been on 4th street from ninety eight to two thousand and six .
and then i moved for the gallery to open the art gallery .
i moved to a bigger spot by 33rd street and 10th .
and where it is now it is hudson yard .
now thats hudson yard .
but it wa fun because i wa in an industrial space .
i had the floor to myself at night at five oclock hit the building emptied .
i could probably .
there wa nobody in that area .
it wa a wild space .
if you did not know me youd never find me .
but that wa the mystique it wa what it wa about .
you open the elevator door open and there last right new york .
it is some amazing sculpture there .
we had a lot of giger stuff .
it wa it wa special i had a lot of fun with it .
id redesign it every five year revamp the whole place into something different because i get bored .
and i faced that six month ago in my art studio now my private studio .
i am now what ?
i added black light and crazy shit that .
tattoo armor is the best way to wrap your client .
matt been using it and it is awesome .
there no mess .
there no glue and it is super comfortable .
i hope you can try it for yourself and go on to tattoo armor and use the code on a tattoo for twenty percent off your order .
through your through last right you opened the door for many of the most famous tattooers let the guy that group were good and started working there and they took off .
i am that old garage band that every rock star once played in .
thats what it is .
but you always had an eye for a lot of talent .
and how did you how would you say it is a good way to hire people or to seek out for artist that are going to work at your shop ?
i had trouble because i had i had a high rent in new york .
fivezero square foot in midtown is no joke .
and it would take me a year year and a half to find a replacement when someone left because no one good enough .
i get thousand of portfolio but maybe a dozen are worth calling not to be a dick about it .
but yeah you have to filter it out .
you have to filter it out .
and but for me it is not about being a good tattooer .
it is having a good character too .
yeah thats important .
and it make it hard .
but because of the rent and everything i had to hire some people that i knew id regret hiring .
and thats when it got to the point where these particular artist sucked the life out of the shop for me .
there wa no more paint night .
there wa no more real camaraderie .
there wa headphone on for every tattoo and leaving my client out of the picture .
and that whole special experience wa gone .
you are getting lost .
and because the shop is an extension of me a the shop suffered i suffered .
and it i went into depression .
i wa tattooing minimally at the time .
and then covid came along and i am yeah fuck this .
tough moment .
i knew that .
yeah i would have kept going if it wasnt for covid .
all of a sudden i had this freedom and i got my art back .
i am tattooing and painting full time .
again and i am feeling my art more than i have in year .
and it is been the best move i ever made .
i am happy now and stress free .
i built a art studio in my basement .
i am i stroll downstairs and tattoo all day .
it is fucking great .
thats awesome .
and i am dealing with real people serious people .
it is not a walk in shop in my house .
it is i am dealing with people that are spending a lot of money and serious about their art it is not bad .
how doe that feel having all these people come to your house though ?
but i creepy. . i say he try to scare them more than they would .
they are more worried about me .
will you ever get out alive ?
we might not make it out of .
sometimes they bring their friend and their friend do not know me or anything about me and theyll come in and sit down and they are between a tiger paw and a taxidermied baby .
what a casket in front of them what am i doing here ?
and my humor is dark and sarcastic they do not know what to make of me .
man i feel you have a presence about you that when you enter a room everybodys yes enter the room .
what it is ?
my my defense mechanism because i do not do good with crowd .
i get a lot of social anxiety .
and my defense mechanism is to toughen up and make the hair on my back stand up .
i am always people say i am unapproachable but it is not that i am unapproachable .
it is that i am guarded .
because i do not do with people one on one .
a a tattooer i learned that .
i am a nervous little girl trying to do a seminar talking in front of everybody a fish in an aquarium .
ive had band drag me on stage and i freak out .
thats something i wanted to touch on .
youve tattooed some of the world page rock star .
which is wild .
how how did that even start happening ?
the magazine exposure .
i wa at a convention in california once again .
and we had a mutual friend .
and she he wanted to meet me .
she and i did not know he wa even there but he wanted to meet me and get tattooed .
she brought him to me and i freaked out because i wa a huge fan of sepultura .
yeah. . and we hit it off .
we became friend immediately .
i tattooed him invited me out to the house .
ive tattooed max and igor and the family at their house .
and they invited me out on the road with them to go on tour in ninety four .
and that wa my first tour .
and it wa pantera sepultura and biohazard .
and i wa out on that tour .
and that wa when i first met in selmo and a bunch of people we hit it off i ended up going to his place and tattooing him at his place .
and id make house call or what have you because i wa loving the whole experience .
yeah thats incredible .
for a fat guy from new jersey to be hanging out with his idol .
it is wow this is pretty cool .
and then we became friend .
it is not idol anymore .
they are when i listen to the music .
but but it is we have normal friendship and mutual respect .
thats incredible .
what do you think it is the major but misconception from people about you a an artist ?
i do not eat baby .
but ill say it here now .
i have yet to eat a baby .
not that i ever want but i have yet to eat one .
no i do not know misconception about me .
it is funny .
i have a lot of hater out there and the majority of them have never even fucking met me .
thats always the case ?
but i. i hear thing about me .
i feel the king of the rumor mill .
ive heard i am a gay heroin addict .
and i am yeah i am the world fattest heroin .
ive heard i eat baby .
ive heard i have massive orgy which is not necessarily .
i hear all this shit about me .
and it wa a point where i wa even starting my own rumor to see what would happen to them when they got back to me .
the telephone game how do you feel about the current state of mentorships and because we touched on it briefly before we started of the way that tattooing ha opened up .
i feel you started in a point of tattooing that it wa very it wa guarded .
i have positive and negative thought about it i and i am not going to sit on the fence .
ill tell you exactly what i think back in my day .
and i think even today still tattooing itself is an artisan craft .
it is stone cutter that built that do gravestone and monument and granite and stuff that .
yeah stone mason .
you do not learn that youve got to apprentice .
youve got to learn from the master and they pas the torch to you .
and tattooing wa that .
and then let see the first move that i recognized a the problem wa the big .
do you remember the dvd craze of how to video ?
the guy who started that came to me year later complaining about how all these new kid suck .
and i am maybe you shouldnt have taught him for one hundred buck .
what ? .
i wa i wanted to ask rus this last night because he made a dvd .
you are saying there is one guy behind all .
he a friend .
but but there is a person .
there one one person .
i remember the first guy that did it .
and then everyone jumped on board and everyone wa selling their how to video dvd .
i guess the question that i am asking is wa there .
wa there a publisher who wa behind all of these people ?
because it is not it wa all self public .
it wa all self .
thats what i wa .
it wa homemade dvd .
i feel they looked similar the cover looked similar it wa all produced by the same person .
not everyone follows along .
how many original bone are there ?
that that would redo it a new way .
it became a craze .
after i got the chance to sit down with matt and john on the honest tattoo or podcast the force of focus got amazing feedback when it come to the whole to heal the process and networking strategy and most of all creating your own personal brand and culture .
i want to give you the opportunity to take fifteen off by coming to join the force of focus arena .
now this is a community of high achieving tattoo artist who were all here for one reason to be around minded individual who all want to grow not only in our personal life but within our business .
we are going to walk with you side by side to build out every system you could ever imagine to not only ensure the fact you are on the path but how to be able to see your dream life and then achieve it .
now i have a laundry list of artist who have been able to achieve their dream .
and if you are ready to do the same click the link below and let get a conversation .
but there should be some degree of protection for the industry sake the art sake .
i do not think someone tattooing for three year should have three apprentice under them .
i do not think theyve been in long enough but i see that now all over the place .
it is more and more common .
and you learn for free .
thats fine too .
but i think you should pick and choose who you teach because i want the people i teach to be a credit to the industry a a teacher .
i want my student to surpass me .
otherwise why am i teaching ?
yeah i want to build a monster .
and thats how i approached every apprenticeship that i had .
and out of the five i had only half of one succeeded .
and but i am since i grasshopper shit it is not here how you poke hole in skin .
it is not a two month deal .
it is year .
i am probably overly critical and demanding .
and but ill break you and ill build you up again into a monster .
i know i will because thats my mission .
and then thats a costention of me .
if that guy look an idiot then i look an idiot too .
and it is hard .
and back in the day there wa a chain of who taught who .
i learned from ernie white .
he learned from i do not remember and on .
it wa a family tree in tattooing .
thats wiped out .
thats gone .
these new kid do not know what it wa .
when it wa smaller community and anything though a it get bigger and trendier it dilutes .
. . and then with the advent of certain tv show youve got riff raff coming into the industry because the artist on the show are tricked by the producer into being douchebags for their fifteen minute .
theyll do it to be on tv but they are destroying the industry because they are making u look a bunch of asshole .
i know thats harsh and extreme but and perhaps it is .
but what happens is you got these douchebags at home .
watching this and going hey wait a minute i am a douchebag .
i could be a tattoo artist too .
and here we are .
i want to be a rock star .
the floodgate opened and here we are .
it is inevitable .
but i believe and here the positive coming finally .
i believe we are headed for a new tattoo renaissance because whats happening now is all that riff raff that came in and poisoned the industry are getting bored because they are not the rock star .
they thought theyd be number one and number two .
they are getting starved out because business there a bit of a tattoo recession .
a lot of shop are slow .
and it is weeding out the wigglies correct weeding out the worm man because they are going to they do not have the attention span to stick with this .
it still take a special person to be a true tattooer .
i believe that .
and they are not it .
they are all going to fade away a the trend fade a it is .
and they are going to fade away .
and whats going to be left is the cream of the crop that stuck around because they are committed to it .
the bone the bone .
whats crazy is some of the people whove been in it for a long time they are starting to back out now also .
one of the problem i see some people do not realize i see it because i am out there on occasion anyway .
at the same time we had all this riff raff come into the industry .
all of the old timer left because they did not want to deal with the bullshit of the riff raff .
there no one left to pas the torch .
the new kid that are a credit to the industry are able to be one have no old timer around to tell them the story and teach them the shit i learned .
i wa over here .
i would eve drop on artist talking to each other and listen .
or i did not intervene and ask question it is not that there the old timer bailed .
i am one of the few that are left out there unless you are going to an old timer specific convention but the bigger convention how many old timer do it ?
not that none .
there almost no one there to smack these kid into shape .
no but i think also that some there there a lack of respect and value .
thats society in general .
society in general the way that they treat their elder ?
and i do not think thats thats in every culture but it is definitely not culture here in america .
it feel it is it is also a new thing .
the younger generation they lack respect for for geez of and across the board across the board of anything of anything .
what do ?
the young each the old how the nature is .
only reason we have a platform is because other people built this platform for u to get on .
. . thats it is crazy .
it is it is pretty normal for the youth to not see that .
it is this and new .
thats true .
i whats new is that the entitlement and the lack of work ethic in today youth ?
i think is whats new because i grew up .
i earned my first car .
i wasnt handed to me what ?
i worked for what i got and i am glad i did because i appreciated that much more .
all the tasmanian devil i tattooed i do not regret one of them .
yeah i wanted to do big back piece and shit but i wasnt ready for it .
and you said you do not feel comfortable taking on an apprentice because how you feel with your knowledge base and everything .
it is the same thing it is .
i think we are at a pivotal moment where there many new thing .
when you started tattooing tattoo machine .
now mainly when you go and everybodys using pen and dildo .
you got a red one .
yeah thats pretty good .
got two big black dildo .
the best .
thats got a black one with green led .
thats fancy .
mine ha a siren on .
and to come from a point and we are tattooing .
when you started i am sure you were doing acetate stetzels .
to now having a full ipad to be able to do a million thing .
and on top of that we have ai .
mid journey all of these tool .
how do you feel about the future of tattooing some of these tool and where we are going ?
my i explored my fan base first .
when nfts were all the rage i made a comment because i wa planning an nft thing because i got the picture where most people hated it because it wa new and they did not understand it .
when hated nfts and i made a post ?
and i said what do you guy think of nfts ?
and i lost two or three thousand follower for asking a question .
and everyone wa on me about it .
i am jesus christ i did not even say i wa doing anything ?
i held off on posting my plan .
a few month to see if thing would die down because whats the point of promoting it if half your fan base hate you ?
it is not going to go anywhere .
no. . i waited and then the bottom fell out of nfts and i managed to squeak by and not have started one .
but anyway it is not about nfts about ai .
and ai half my fan base love it and half my fan base hate it .
and it is an interesting place to stand because i personally love it .
i use it all the time but i use it a a tool .
it is not .
see people that do not understand how it work or dive into it enough think it is ripping off artist and cheating doing the art for you .
but for me what i learned with ai is i use mid journey a my main one for visuals .
but what i do is ive added it to my arsenal of tool to create my art .
i am using ai to build reference for a painting or even a tattoo .
and then i take that reference and i look at it and ill draw it on somebody or ill build the painting using the ai art or design i should say .
can not call it art .
but i would take these design and use them a reference .
and i use photoshop .
and thats not to enhance photo .
thats to to make art and it is another tool .
my attitude is that back when photography wa invented all the portrait artist were freaking out the everyone the artist are now with ai .
everyone wa afraid photography wa going to steal their job .
a of today photography and portrait art simultaneously both still exist and prosper .
there room for it .
there always room for it .
it is about adaptation .
they say the key to survival .
ai is not going anywhere .
either learn how to work with it or get left behind .
yes it is efficient .
it help me work out idea .
but you have to understand that it is not draw me a mermaid .
yeah i can i can tell it what camera to use .
i can tell what lighting to use .
i can tell how fin are on the mermaid .
and i can detail crazy and build variation of there much you can do .
it is sculpting with word and image .
you use the word and the comma and the description change everything .
yeah for sure .
if you look at it that a a tool and a a wordsmithing and image smithing tool i think it is pretty effective monetizing it .
i havent figured out other than merch .
yeah i doing a bunch of shirt design built on my ai .
but i am lucky because mid journey wa built on fourzero artist that they taught their style to to the ai .
i am lucky enough to be one of those fourzero .
when i go into mid journey ill type in in the style of paul booth and ill get something sometimes remotely but often paul booth ask image i can work with my own style .
how do that you are one of the artist that wa i saw the list ? .
without your permission .
yeah but id have given him permission anyway because it is not stealing your art .
ai is having a good and efficient art assistant .
it is hey assistant .
set me up with this .
the old master had apprentice doing their painting for them. . whats new ?
what happened wa they taught the art to the ai .
then they deleted the art and had the ai make derivative of that art .
if you type paul booth into mid journey you are going to get some that might resemble me or giger is a better example .
he more popular type giger into mid journey and youll get giger ask art influenced by giger influenced by giger not done by giger .
there this is not about stealing from the artist .
this is about being influenced by the artist .
i do not see anything wrong with that .
i emulated giger when i wa a kid with my airbrush .
he the one who inspired me to use an airbrush in the first place .
my attitude is it is that it is an emulation .
and i personally do not have a problem with it .
and i plan on keeping up with it because i to adapt to thing and in any business ai is stealing job .
yes but it is building new job ai oriented job .
it is about you keeping up with that learning to utilize ai in your field .
i am using it in tattooing and painting and everything else i am doing .
the book cover for my book i made an ai invented a girl that i am in love with but shes ai .
man sidebar did you hear about the kid that he created an ai girl that he fell in love with ?
yes he killed himself .
he called her daenerys gartagarian and he had her talk the game of throne voice .
thats what she wa typing in .
yeah the parent should know better .
they should have known better .
it is when juda priest wa blamed for that kid .
yeah it is not the ai .
no it is the parent .
the parent dude .
give me that computer .
i am going to throw it out the window .
it is funny .
you talk about the ai and helping with your your idea and your illustration .
i do not copy it. . i do not take the ai and and duplicate it. . i take the eye and use it a reference .
there is a difference .
it is still my art .
and thats referenced by ai .
and thats the the problem with a powerful tool that is that how many people that are going to keep it in that respect ?
thats the problem .
i agree with you there that they do not .
ive taken my flash fed it to the ai taught it to the ai .
and now i have ai based new version of my flash design .
i do not know to do it .
i do not have any plan .
but it is cool to see the variation on my own art .
it is refreshing to hear it is ive recently been doing exactly what you are doing pulling reference from mid journey or chapter pt and then using that to create a new image but highly referencing the ai .
and a small part of me is do not let anybody know that i am doing it .
but everybodys using google for copywritten image reference .
and thats worse than using ai because ai is not copyright. . it is under your direction .
yeah. . there this big problem in the i play this trading card game called magic the gathering .
and what i love about that game especially getting into it in the late ninety wa the artwork that came with it the fantasy work dungeon and dragon the dark art and all the very middle earthy type of art very fantasy based .
and what i loved about that company is that they would commission illustrator and good artist fantasy artist to paint the the the art that would eventually go on the card .
and now fast forward to today .
and what you have with ai is you can see the signature all over all the new printing of the new card and the new concept because they almost have this look of if if if you michael bade the crap out of it .
it is .
too many special effect and not enough soul of the artist on because there wa much creative help from the ai .
and sometimes it is you can visually tell you are man this artist did not he did great .
it is a balance between the ai and your spirit .
what ? .
but it can not be ai and it can be your mojo but or whatever you want to call it the soul of your art .
i think it is a balance between ai a reference and adding your soul to it .
yeah because thats essentially what it is you are designing something in ai and then you are reinterpreting it with your soul involved in that ai then becomes part of the journey but not the result .
it is a great tool .
what a piece of advice would you give a younger artist about maintaining in this in tattooing ?
we are full .
whatever you were doing .
no no there a art out there that blow me away .
there some amazing artist out there .
and i wish more of them showed their work healed .
but yes no le there is same .
there is a lot of talent out there .
unfortunately it is only guy u that know when it may look good but it is going to heal shit .
for age shit .
yeah absolutely .
we can spot it .
man i wa having a conversation with some guy from ireland at the convention over the weekend and we were talking about how .
he wa asking me if i wa entering anything into the contest and i wa i do not have anybody .
maybe ill enter the guy that i have tattooing today in one of the category is not tattoo of the day .
and i wa hopefully they let me do it since it is not a healed piece .
he wa what are you talking about ?
over in ireland and he maybe in other country overseas too he wa saying that .
healed tattoo are looked down upon at the convention a far a entering the contest .
and then i wa trying to but how .
anybody who could do decent art can make a good looking tattoo fresh .
but it is not necessarily always going to look that way after it is healed .
and he wa no you got to you got to do fresh tattoo because thats whats important .
that is crazy .
thats a bunch of bullshit .
you feel we are at a point where at a pivotal point to have a new renaissance tattoo .
yeah i think .
within the next few year what doe that look to you ?
relief le bullshit .
i am waiting for this trend .
dnes trendiness of tattooing to fade .
yeah a all trend do .
and i think it is starting to in the mainstream you get the poser and the bandwagon ear .
yeah it is all part of the cycle of thing .
and then next year left with only those that are credit .
i feel the true will weather the storm after .
yeah whether the storm itll be worth it .
itll be worth it because we love it .
and then everyone thats not everyone but a lot most of the people that are tattooing after this will be worth your time .
the the the quality of work is going to rise more exponentially i think .
maybe thats too much of a word to use at extreme but but maybe not exponentially but it is certainly going to continue to rise .
and it is going to be left for the people that .
should be here .
yes no more of this .
these shenanigan with bullshit tattoo and tattooing ha always had it trend .
even i wa a trend there all kind of trend and it is not a big trend .
but i am saying the stylistically biomechanicals a trend faded trend but still popular amongst people that biomechanical .
there always a home for everything .
thats legitimate .
but the bullshit ignorant style .
what the hell is that ?
it is scratch .
it is random scratcher .
it is a scratcher .
it is offensive to me .
i work hard at this and have for a very long time .
and for it prof what a joke it is become .
that that can be popular .
what do you think make a tattoo truly remarkable or beyond a tattoo and more smart ?
because i feel youve created that .
if you do a tattoo that is not going to look good in ten year it is not a tattoo .
it is not a good tattoo .
youve got to think about ten year down the road when you do a tattoo .
youve got to be thinking about how it is going to age .
because for me when i started the permanence of tattooing wa an attraction a big one .
and now people argue with me about it .
it is not important anymore .
i can not argue with you .
i guess this is what the new generation is .
yeah it is sad but because because we are trying to put essentially our mindset is that we are trying to put art on the body .
and this is more along the line of i do not know even borderline mutilation where it is i am going to cause a statement and put something horribly bad on .
yeah yeah a a statement for sure .
yeah statement .
you got these pop star with scribbled desk scribble all over the face .
yeah i want to look bad on purpose .
each to their own i am not here to judge if thats what you are into .
thats what you are into .
but i carved image into my desk too .
but it wasnt my face .
i want to know who is your favorite tattoo artist ?
philip lou ha been probably consistent .
may could we get him on the show ?
i know man .
getting him to come to the state would be that would be a challenge .
i know thats why we got to get on the trip .
we should put up .
we would fly to the swiss alp or french alp .
we put a montage of all the people mentioning his name .
come here and talk to u . that would be a challenge without being credible .
he probably up there one of my favorite tattoo artist a . absolutely .
he life it .
he breathes it .
there a lot more to him than a lot .
thats a cool tattoo .
he dedicated and no joke .
ive seen him lay out body suit in eight hour and he the fastest ive ever seen .
and i am fast but he blow me away .
people i say fast people are you shouldnt rush .
not rushing .
no it is fast .
it is effectively .
and i think it is important that you are at least somewhat efficient with a tattoo because your customer sit in there suffering .
and it is it would be nice if it did not take fourteen hour to do a portrait that big but each to their own yeah i do not rush at all .
i am not out to be the fastest .
i my style lends itself to speed .
it is built that way .
it is intended to be that way .
there texture i create that can only be done quickly .
thats the secret to my speed is the efficiency and the technique .
and a we come to a close i want to ask you one question .
whats one piece of advice that you would give your younger self and your tattoo career run away ?
what would you tell paul booth if you could go back in time at any point in time ?
trust no one .
stay true to your art man .
do not get caught up in the hype and all the bullshit around it .
if you become popular thats great .
congratulation but do not let it go to your head .
there nothing worse than an egomaniac especially in tattooing .
there many of them .
and i hate it more than i hate anything .
is these cocky prick that think they are god gift to tattooing .
and i think it is important for learning if nothing else to get better .
you need to humble yourself .
and i think the best advice for me is you stay true to your art and everything else will come .
the popularity the rock star bullshit all that stuff will come if you are good .
and and granted there a lot of good artist out there that nobody ever heard of .
but still you be the best you can be with your art without compromising and staying true to it than all the other thing that you are looking for .
and you are driven a goal .
focus on the journey not the reward .
that journey is probably the most the part that keep you going man especially in tattooing .
it is a journey man .
whats next in your journey after thirty year of tattooing ?
whats next in your journey ?
i got a screenplay for a horror film i am looking to do .
i came out with a book .
ive got my own coffee now my own ink .
what it is ?
i the first time in a long time all i have to think about is myself .
i do not have a bunch of artist to feed .
and i could focus on thing i want to do making some money outside of tattooing is always nice .
you get old you lose your hand in your eye and you can not tattoo anymore .
what do you got ?
ive spent year gradually building up thing outside of tattooing .
thats the bulk of it now .
ive always been an explorer .
if i get a crazy idea i get up in the middle of the night .
i give it a logo and i start a proposal and turn it into something my nature .
i have pile of these business idea and concept that some of them are million dollar idea .
but i am an artist before i am a businessman .
of course i can come up with the idea but facilitating them is a little more difficult for me .
thats always the hardest part the execution of my good thing .
it is hard to keep that balance .
when i had the shop business pushed in front of the art over demand and over the art had more demand to it that took my art away from me for a bit and because i had to focus on business .
and thats why i walked away from doing convention year ago producing them .
when i did tattoo the earth i quit .
this i see it already these spreadsheet and politics .
it is robbing me of my art .
and i am i am an artist before i am a businessman .
a much a i enjoyed putting on the convention it wa a matter of survival creative survival to walk away .
yeah i am not afraid to walk away from shit .
if it is not if it is detrimental in some way or it is not fun anymore there no point in doing it. . i love tattooing .
i hate the industry but i love tattooing .
i am tired of the politics and the boy club and all that shit .
be the one thing that you would change about the industry now .
i would make healed tattoo more important because it would get rid of a lot of the crap .
id to see the public educated to what a good tattoo is .
we do not have to keep telling them you can not do a whole back piece in twenty three and a half minute .
i am seeing more and more artist charging ridiculous amount of money which i personally have an ethical issue with .
there a difference .
there a ceiling to yeah there a difference between these guy are going over the ceiling .
ten thousand dollar a day rate .
what are you on drug ?
thats insane .
it is wild .
and it is all because of the height not because of the talent. . and thats what piss me off .
because it aint about talent .
it is about you were on tv .
you must be good .
it is removing the craftsmanship from it .
i said it is an artisan craft is where it come from .
to me yeah it come from carnival and criminal but still it is developed into a craft and and and .
thats i do not think it is dying but it is waning .
i feel we are in a crazy time of tattooing but if more of u that love it keep having these conversation .
keep putting love into the art .
keep sharing the passion that we have for it .
i think tattooing will find a good place and it will fall into good hand .
maybe some new some some new good hand .
the new education it is all about education .
maybe the new willingness to learn of course .
and they might care about it a much .
paul we thank you much for coming by .
it is been a pleasure .
sharing your story which is incredible .
and working people find you nowadays if you want to come get tattooed by you .
thats a spot man .
any final thought anybody ?
i am going to thank patreon supporter .
this week we are thanking colin bussing and penguin .
thank you guy for joining on the patreon .
if you want to be those guy and help support the show head over to patreon.com slash honest tattooer and sign up to be a patreon supporter .
i guess the one thing i want to say is that i love tattooing .
ive been tattooing for almost eighteen year and being able to sit with people paul weve been doing for thirty year is heavy and it mean a lot to me .
because getting to hear their story help me create a better story for myself .
i am hoping that if you are a tattooer that you are either further down the line or in your sixth year second year of tattooing you come by you listen to these story because these are relevant thing that will affect your career .
and i feel you are going to learn from some of our the good thing and some of the mistake weve made .
and i think that those thing are very hard .
those story are hard to get from people because sometimes you are surrounded by a bunch of people that are all within your same circle and all that .
we hope that you guy get a lot from it because i definitely do .
and thats one of the reason why i love doing the podcast and being here every week .
i fully support you guy man .
i what you are doing .
it is truly honest and thats what it is about .
appreciate that .
appreciate that .
thank you much .
i wouldnt have done this if otherwise i am very hateful into it .
a you should be .
a anyone who know me know .
all guy thank you much for joining u and thank you paul .
thank you .
thank you very much .
hey everyone and welcome back for another deep dive .
today we are taking you behind the scene of something you probably love listening to podcasts .
but we are not talking about the content itself .
we are going deeper into the world of branding and cover art .
well be exploring how podcasts create their unique identity .
and why thats crucial in a world with get this over five million podcasts out there .
thats a lot of competition .
that blew my mind when i saw that stat in a recent article on suburl ag .
a website that cover tech and cyber trend .
it made me think about how my favorite podcasts stand out .
you are how do you cut through all that noise and make your podcast shine ?
thats exactly what well be uncovering today .
whether you are a podcast enthusiast or maybe thinking of starting your own this deep dive will give you a whole new perspective on what make a podcast truly captivating .
and it all start with understanding the power of branding .
it is more than a logo .
it is way more than a logo .
i feel people throw that word around a lot .
think of it this way. . every time you reach for your favorite coffee .
or choose a specific brand of sneaker .
whats driving that decision ?
i guess it is because i know what to expect .
i trust those brand .
and they feel familiar a part of my routine .
and it is the same with podcasts .
branding is about creating that same sense of familiarity and trust with listener .
you are building a personality for your show that attracts the audience and keep them coming back for more .
how do podcasts do that ?
what are the element that go into building a podcast brand ?
the article break it down into a few key component .
first you have the podcast name. . which seems obvious but is super important. . it need to be memorable relevant to the content .
and something people can easily search for .
it is would you rather listen to a podcast called ramblings about stuff ?
or something more specific and intriguing. . a good name spark curiosity and tell listener what they are in for .
i that .
then there the tone and voice of the podcast. . which is all about the vibe. . some podcasts are super serious the daily with it news anchor delivery while others are more casual and chatty armchair expert .
thats true .
it is choosing between a documentary and hanging out with friend ?
you have to decide what experience you are creating for your listener .
and then of course there the cover art. . this is your first impression .
and in the crowded world of podcasting it need to be eyecatching. . i have a confession to make. . i judge podcasts by their cover art. . i know .
i know maybe i shouldnt but a great cover draw me in .
research show that listener scroll through podcast apps incredibly quickly .
your cover art ha to make an impact in a split second .
thats crazy .
this is where a minimalist design can be surprisingly effective. ?
i would have thought youd want something super flashy to stand out .
it is counterintuitive. . but a clean uncluttered design with a strong focal point can cut through the visual clutter and grab attention .
it is about making it easy for listener to understand what your podcast is about at a glance .
it is le is more when it come to podcast cover art .
think of iconic brand apple or nike. . their logo are incredibly simple. . yet instantly recognizable .
the same principle applies to podcasting .
that make a lot of sense .
what else make for great cover art besides being minimalist ?
it need to be reflective of the podcast content. . a true crime podcast probably wouldnt have a bright and bubbly design ?
that would be creepy .
think about podcasts serial which us dark mysterious imagery to fit it true crime theme. . or armchair expert which ha a warm inviting aesthetic that reflects it casual conversation .
i am starting to see how every element tie back to creating a cohesive brand identity .
thats the key. . you want everything to work together seamlessly from the name to the cover art to the tone and voice. . and there are even more element that contribute to this the podcasts logo color scheme and even the music and sound effect .
yeah the intro music .
i love a good podcast intro that get you pumped up or set a specific mood .
it is a sonic signature for your podcast .
it add another layer of sensory branding that can connect with listeners. . but well dive deeper into those aspect a bit later. . for now let focus on cover art since it is often the first thing people see .
i am ready to learn how to create cover art that doesnt make me cringe. . you are ready to dive into the nitty gritty of creating captivating cover art .
what are the secret to making a cover that truly stand out ?
remember how we talked about the power of simplicity ? .
thats rule number one. . do not overthink it .
a clean uncluttered design is more likely to catch the eye than we remembered .
but how do you strike that balance between simple and boring ?
it is all about being intentional with your visual elements. . choose a striking image or graphic that represents your podcasts theme. . and let that be the focal point .
if you have a podcast about nature you might use a stunning photo of a forest or a mountain rain .
and remember those tiny thumbnail we talked about ?
make sure your main visual is still clear and impactful even at a small scale .
choose a strong visual .
this might seem obvious but it is worth repeating. . use high quality images. . a blurry pixelated cover scream amateur .
yeah. . it is if you do not care enough to have a decent cover why would i trust you to deliver quality content ?
think of your cover art a the storefront for your podcast .
a high resolution image show that you take pride in your work and respect your listener time. . weve got simplicity high quality visuals .
what about the text ?
the text a crucial. . make sure the podcasts name is easily readable. . choose a font thats clear and legible even at small sizes. . and consider the contrast between the text and the background .
you do not want your title getting lost in the design .
this reminds me of a podcast i tried listening to a while back .
the cover art wa super cool all dark and mysterious but i couldnt read the name of the show .
it wa frustrating .
thats a common pitfall .
we get caught up in making the cover visually appealing that we forget about basic readability .
noted legible font .
good contrast .
anything else about the text we should know ?
think about the tone you want to convey .
a playful font might be great for a comedy podcast .
but it wouldnt fit a true crime show .
the font choice can enhance your podcasts personality .
ooh thats a good point .
it is font have personality too ?
they can be bold elegant whimsical .
and do not go overboard with too many different fonts. . stick to two or three at most to keep it looking professional. . i am taking note .
weve got the visuals the text .
is there anything else we need to consider when designing cover art ?
this go back to what we discussed earlier about creating a cohesive brand identity. . your cover art should feel a natural extension of your podcasts overall vibe .
the color the imagery the font .
everything should work together harmoniously .
it is you wouldnt wear a tuxedo to a pool party ?
everything need to match the occasion .
and do not forget about the psychology of color .
whats that all about ?
did that certain color can evoke specific emotion and association ?
color have feeling .
not . . but our brain are wired to respond to color in certain way .
for example warm color red and orange can make people feel more energetic. . while cool color blue and green can feel more calming and trustworthy .
thats fascinating .
i guess the color you choose for your cover art can influence how people perceive your podcast .
they absolutely can .
it is worth taking some time to think about the color you are using and what message you want to send. . my mind is officially blown .
creating cover art is way more complex than i thought .
it is a whole art form in itself .
it is .
but do not worry .
you do not need to be a professional designer to create amazing cover art .
there are tool out there that make it super easy for anyone to get started .
the article mentioned that .
canva is fantastic. . it is incredibly userfriendly and packed with feature that help you create professionallooking design even if you have zero design experience .
ive heard good thing about canva .
what make it great for podcast cover art specifically ?
first of all they have ton of readymade template designed specifically for podcasts .
you do not have to start from scratch .
you could choose a template you and customize it with your own image text and color .
that sound much easier than staring at a blank canvas wondering what to do .
it is .
and they have a huge library of stock image and graphic you can use if you do not have your own .
plus you can play around with different font color shape and even add little icon that represent your podcasts theme. . i am sold .
canva sound a game changer .
but before i go create my masterpiece .
any final tip or trick you want to share ?
here a tip i learned the hard way. . design with those tiny thumbnail in mind. . when you are working on your cover art in canva zoop out every now and then and see how it look at a small scale .
thats a good point .
it might look amazing on your computer screen but it turn into a blurry mess on a phone .
think about this .
you only have a split second to grab someone attention a they are scrolling through their podcast app. . your cover art need to be clear concise and visually appealing even at a tiny size .
it is all about making a strong first impression .
and remember your cover art is one piece of the puzzle .
it is part of a larger branding strategy that includes your podcasts name tone and overall personality. . weve covered a lot of ground here .
we have .
from the importance of simplicity to the psychology of color it is clear that creating effective podcast cover art is a blend of art and science .
it is .
and a listening habit continue to evolve we can expect to see even more creative and innovative approach to podcast branding .
thats exciting .
it make you wonder what might the future of podcast visuals hold ?
could we see cover art become interactive or even animated ?
thats a fascinating thought. . imagine scrolling through your podcast app and seeing cover art that come to life .
it could be a game changer for capturing attention and engaging listeners. . i am officially geeking out about the future of podcasting .
but before we get too carried away let bring it back to the present .
weve talked a lot about the visual element of branding .
but what about the audio side ?
did not the article mention music and sound effect ?
and those element play a crucial role in shaping a podcasts identity. . think about your favorite podcasts for a moment .
do they have a catchy intro song ?
or maybe a signature sound effect ?
now that you mentioned it a lot of my favorite podcasts do have those little audio touch that make them unique .
it is adding seasoning to a dish. . the music and sound effect can enhance the mood create a sense of anticipation and even trigger emotional response in listener .
i never thought about it that way but it make total sense .
if you have a podcast about true crime you might use eerie music to set a suspenseful tone .
or a comedy podcast might use upbeat music and silly sound effect to create a lighthearted atmosphere .
it is all about creating a sonic landscape that complement the content and enhances the listening experience .
how do podcasters go about choosing the music and sound effect ?
is it a gut feeling or is there more to it ?
there definitely a strategy involved. . some podcasters hire professional composer to create original music for their shows. . while others use royaltyfree music library to find track that fit their vibe .
i bet that can get expensive though hiring a composer .
it can be an investment .
but it allows you to create a truly unique sonic identity for your podcast .
and for those who are on a tighter budget there are plenty of affordable option out there. . the key is to choose music and sound effect that are high quality and align with your podcast brand .
it sound there a lot to consider when it come to the audio side of podcast branding .
there is .
but with the visual element it is all about creating a cohesive and memorable experience for your listener .
weve covered a lot of ground in this deep dive .
weve explored the power of branding the key element that go into creating a podcasts identity and even glimpsed into the future of podcast visuals .
what stand out to you the most from all of this ?
what fascinates me is how podcasting ha evolved from a niche medium to this incredibly diverse and dynamic landscape .
and a technology continues to advance i think well see even more innovation in the way podcasts are created and consumed .
i am with you on that .
it is exciting to think about what the future hold for podcasting .
but for now i want to bring it back to our listener .
if you are a podcast enthusiast i encourage you to take a closer look at your favorite show with a fresh perspective .
pay attention to the branding choice theyve made .
how doe the name the cover art the music and the tone all work together to create a unique and memorable experience ?
you might be surprised by how much thought and intentionality go into crafting a successful podcast brand .
and for those of you who are dreaming of starting your own podcast remember that a strong brand identity can be your secret weapon for standing out in that sea of five million show .
the world need your story your insight and your perspective .
go forth and create something amazing .
thats a perfect note to end on .
thanks for joining u for this deep dive into the world of podcast branding .
we hope youve gained some valuable insight and are feeling inspired to create or simply appreciate podcasts with a newfound awareness .
and remember keep exploring keep learning and keep those earbuds happy .
if i am going to make a painting i want it to feel a painting .
what doe painting do that nothing else can do ?
and it would be cobbling together sloppy abstract shape that if you took them apart wouldnt make any sense .
but you put them all together you soften an edge here you harden an edge here .
you get the color harmony .
it all of a sudden pop into this representation of a memory .
hello my name is will spencer and welcome to the will spencer podcast .
this is a weekly show featuring indepth conversation with author leader and influencers who help u understand our changing world .
new episode release every friday .
my guest this week is forrest dickison and he a husband father fine artist and the author and illustrator of the new childrens book crispin rain in the sky .
you may have seen it hanging around in the background of doug wilson recent video .
now i havent been blessed with kid yet i do not read many childrens book but this ha to be one of the finest ive come across both in picture and in story .
it tell the tale of a boy and his sister on the aforementioned rainy day who then go on a swashbuckling adventure with pirate frog wherein the childrens unique gift shine .
now i am going to show you a little bit of the story behind the book .
the book is the result of forrests life devoted to the visual art painting drawing and more .
it is the latest achievement of the book which is a very unique story .
forrest say i am not going to spoil it but this is a story thats not only a story thats very unique but it is also a story thats very unique and the childrens unique gift shine .
now i do not want to spoil it but the fact that there even a spoilable plot point in a childrens book say enough .
thanks for having me .
ive got your your book here christmas rainy day .
i do not read a lot of kid book but i i genuinely loved this one .
this wa heartwarming it wa exciting it wa beautifully drawn and the messaging and it wa it wa it wa touching .
i wanted to congratulate you on this not that i am a condenctor of the of the of the art but this wa an excellent book .
thank you sir .
i wanted to get started .
ive also a i mentioned to you id also seen your painting in the gallery in moscow .
ive been looking forward to having this conversation because the visual art are not one of my skill set .
i do enjoy travel photography but painting and drawing and thing this are beyond me .
ive been looking forward to talking with you about your art and the process of getting to where youve been and also the book that youve created .
maybe we can start at the beginning .
what wa the beginning of that ?
what did that look for you ?
and i guess also how wa it nurtured to the point where you are hey i can maybe do something with this ?
i do not remember a time when i wasnt drawing .
i think every kid begin their life drawing .
i wa one of those that did not stop .
my friend classmate they petered out in early grade school .
and i wa the kid that wanted to stay in from recess and draw skateboarder snowboarder monster anything that peaked my interest at the time .
id always been doing it .
i loved calvin and hobbes tintin asterix .
i loved old disney animation handdrawn animation .
my mom did a good job of hanging some nice print on our wall growing up .
we had old master john singer sargent soroya winslow homer .
we had some pretty good print on the wall .
she had great taste .
i wa always surrounded by story and picture .
and then later in high school wa when i realized that i wa probably not going to be able to do anything else with my life .
there wa only one option .
nothing else interested me .
i thought maybe a marine biologist could be interesting but i thought manatee were cool .
and that wa a phase .
i had a manatee phase .
and they still have them .
maybe ill do that someday .
i graduated from logo and then went to the university of idaho which is the local university here in moscow and jumped in at their fine art program .
the program wa in between professor at the time .
they werent dedicated drawing or painting professor there while i wa attending .
i got a lot of instruction from the internet book and wa given a lot of free time to pursue it on my own .
and then yeah i think it wa my junior year .
i started working with canon press in college .
i think the first project we did together wa the riot and the dance biology textbook that dr. gordon wilson wrote .
it ha since ballooned into a whole nature doc series that you can find on canon plus .
viddangel i think ha it a . but i am not sure .
i started a a biology textbook .
i wa illustrating beatles thing whose name i can not remember .
and then from there i started working with nate wilson pretty early on a . we started doing i started helping him out with some pitch deck for some of his novel for film pitch .
and then we started working on hello ninja the board book .
and that wa two thousand and thirteen i think we started that came out in two thousand and fourteen .
and then that wa that wa how my career started wa biology textbook hello ninja .
and then canon press is they produce curriculum book all kind of different book trade book a few novel thing that .
i wa i wa immediately stretched into all kind of different artistic category off the bat which i am very grateful for .
yeah thats an introduction .
i am glad i am glad you said that because i am looking at the crispin rainy day art style .
it is got a little bit of the a at howells moving castle miyazaki feeling to it at least in the eye .
but a i looked at this book and looked at the looked at the drawing looked at the art and then i compared it with what i saw at the gallery .
there wa one particular painting of yours it had a had a magenta sky you probably know the one that i am thinking of looking out over an idyllic landscape and something about that sunset caught me .
but there there couldnt be a bigger difference at least to me there couldnt be a bigger difference between the what you painted in that painting and the art style of this textbook .
and i think it make sense that you would have done much different stuff .
and thats how you would be able to cross the line many different many different line in visual art to different style .
yeah thats interesting to hear you say that because i do not think about it too much .
i think in term of genre i am trying to make a nice painting that will be itll it is a composition that can stand on it own .
there no character in it .
it is a landscape painting .
but i am using a lot of the same muscle to illustrate a page of a picture book .
there and that started out a a curiosity for any any image making i wa interested in .
whether it wa cartoon i said animation printmaking board game art video game art biology textbook i anything that wa interesting to me i chased it which ha been helpful .
and one one reason i did that because i needed money .
but what that gave me wa an ability to jump between medium or genre without too much trouble .
when you when you started out a a kid i guess you were probably drawing in school notebook with a pen or a pencil or something that or did you jump into watercolor or acrylic ?
how did how did that take shape ?
and also a i look at crispin rainy day what wa this done in ?
wa this wa this digital ?
wa this illustrator or wa it hand drawn ?
it wa a combination .
but i made an effort to make them look a traditional a possible .
the line work is all traditional .
it is it is dip pen and dip pen and ink on bristol board .
i penciled and inked traditionally and then colored it digitally .
i wa going to color it traditionally but we were running out of time and i had to get it done .
and then what wa the other part of that question ?
wa there wa there a medium that wa interesting to you off the bat ?
or wa it into whatever you could get into your hand ?
yeah no off the bat .
there wa no medium that caught my interest .
it wa pencil and paper .
and then color wa a way to enhance what i wa already drawing .
colored pencil when i wa younger .
and then logo school doe a great job of giving art instruction to it student that i found out is rare and not something thats done in most school across the country .
when i have friend i told them i spent my i had instructor during elementary school that taught me they would draw a sunflower and then i would have to copy the sunflower .
all my art friend were blown away because they never had any instruction that from their public school .
i am grateful to logo for giving me art lesson that i definitely did not appreciate at the time .
i thought they were boring but it wa a good foundation for what i would eventually do .
it wa all pencil pen and ink .
and then i loved animation but that wa hand drawn animation wa an art form that wa on the way out when i wa getting old enough to enter the workforce .
i had set that aside and went and pursued oil painting .
that wa what i chased in college .
it wa a good way to combine my interest my interest for being outside taking hike going on trip with image making .
i wa able to go outside and paint and respond to the landscape and the light directly which wa something that i found compelling .
it wa pencil paper and then oil paint .
and those have been my two go to medium for a while now .
i landscape photography and travel photography .
can you talk a little bit about the process of painting a landscape in the landscape ?
this is one of maybe at some point in my life i will pursue that .
maybe i will chase that because thats something that i think speaks to me .
maybe you could talk a little bit about how you got into that what the process ha been learning that what your process is for doing a painting that a . that would bless me quite a bit .
yeah it is thrilling .
i remember the first time i went out i had bought these water soluble oil paint which you think about it make no sense at all because water and oil do not mix .
but somehow they were able to take these paint introduce a molecule or remove a molecule that ruined it and became water soluble .
and i went out with some friend .
it wa freezing cold .
i grabbed water from a creek to mix my paint .
and i made a atrocious little painting of some birch tree .
but it wa thrilling because it felt hunting .
i wa out there in the wild ready to kill something .
it wa challenging .
you have three hundred and sixty degree of view around your easel .
you have temperature you have sound you have wind all these different factor that are bombarding your sens .
and if it is done they can experience what you did almost a effectively which i think is fascinating .
i enjoy the process of hunting .
it is challenging .
it is clear whether you succeed or fail .
there not a lot of wishywashy gray area .
you either make a nice painting or you do not .
and then i enjoy being able to bottle that sensation or experience and frame it nicely give it to somebody else that they can then enjoy it a . when you take the canvas out there into the wild do you finish it all at once ?
is that the goal ?
ive got x amount of time to finish it before the sun set or a storm roll in or can you bring it back and try again or add to it ?
yeah both .
it is nice to finish on the spotter a they are called but that rarely happens .
usually you only have an hour or two before the light change .
your subject matter completely different .
you have to be quick .
and then once youve got that impression down you can take it back to the studio .
and ill generally most of my plein air this is what it is called when you paint plein air .
it is the open air .
when you are painting plein air i generally make study and then bring it back to the studio for larger piece or ill fix it up in the studio .
it is challenging to get something finished out there in the field .
that make sense because i wa imagining you only have x amount of time with the light being the way it is and the care and the thought and the attention the detail that go into a beautiful piece .
maybe itll come together in the course of a couple hour but it did not seem likely to me that lightning would strike that often .
yeah no it doesnt .
and there something charming about a sketch .
i do an unfinished sketch .
there a lot of energy .
if it is done if it is not entirely finished then there more for the viewer imagination to do when it is looking at that particular painting .
they can finish it on their end and then it becomes a little more sticky in their own mind i think .
yes a pencil sketch or a color sketch .
i can a quick little color scribble either way .
i am glad we are talking about this because i am thinking about the art exhibit that wa in moscow during grace agenda .
and one of the thing i noticed again this is coming from someone who doesnt have a fine art background .
i do not have enough language .
i know what i see .
i know what i and i can look critically at thing a opposed to thats cool and walk away .
i noticed that there wa a difference between some of the painting you had done which i guess i would call them more impressionistic and some of the more hyper realistic hyper detailed approach which had a different appeal .
i wonder if you can talk through the difference between those .
because i imagine it is a six of one half dozen another of the other an artist approach someone personal taste .
but maybe you can talk about the selection of style in that regard .
yeah personal taste ha a lot to do with it .
but ive and ive been through a lot of different style on my fine art journey .
and but ive recently landed in i guess what you call more of an impressionistic camp .
because when i am painting what interest me is the soul of a place or the overall impression of a landscape .
it is i want my goal to frame a window that is a an entrance into another world .
i am not looking i am not that interested in detail .
i am not interested in subject matter a much a the light .
the subject matter obviously matter .
but i am looking for that broad impression color harmony something that feel more the place than look a representational photograph of the place .
the strength of an impressionist painting if it is done is what we talked about earlier where you have something that is not entirely finished .
and when somebody look at it and it is there a brushstroke every other inch or something but then you step back and it all coheres into this unified piece of art .
that is the viewer mind finishing the painting with the artist .
and instead of me giving the viewer everything here everything down to the little hair that doesnt it is not a much of a poetic take on the landscape .
it is more a onetoone representation which can be impressive but it doesnt scratch the itch that i am trying to scratch which is a broad impression of a place that is delivered straight to your soul .
i am trying to bypass all the information tree grass cloud and give you the impression of what it felt to be there which is i think that style simpler design broader brushstrokes color harmony that are not exactly the same a what youd see in nature .
it doe a better job of feeling a place than a photograph would .
yeah i am trying to get the most out of painting when i do it .
and that impressionistic style i think is it lends itself to that more poetic take on the landscape .
when you say you are trying to get the most out of it what exactly do you mean by that ?
the most evocative feeling the viewer feel the most engrossed in it or you have effectively communicated what it felt to be there maybe all of the above ?
yes but making the most of the medium .
if i am going to make a painting i want it to feel a painting .
what doe painting do that nothing else can do ?
and it would be cobbling together sloppy abstract shape that if you took them apart wouldnt make any sense .
but you put them all together you soften an edge here you harden an edge here you get the color harmony .
it all of a sudden pop into this representation of a memory .
thats what painting doe that nothing else can do .
if with crispin rainy day i needed something a little more specific something that lended itself to gesture and expression and characterization .
thats i am going to grab the pen that i could get detailed expression out of the character .
i couldnt get you could i could have painted the whole thing but it would have taken forever .
and the expression wouldnt be a iconic .
by making them by turning these character into line you are boiling them down to their simplest form that it can be delivered quickly and effectively almost i do not know emojis .
thats yeah .
when i am painting i do not want to be making comic .
i do not want to be making a photograph .
i want to be making a painting feel a much a painting a possible that it can be what it is .
a you say that ive got the book ive got crispin rainy day here .
i want to hold something up to the camera for those who are watching .
i guess i guess you use the word iconic .
and this is the i do not know spoiler i guess but where he find the lightning sword i guess ive never this language is great because it is helping me interpret linguistically thing ive only seen visually .
when you say iconic obviously this image of crispin with a sword i look at this and i immediately know whats happening .
there not a whole lot of room for ambiguity .
it is there it is clear the line are sharp the action is communicated versus if you were to try and do this in a painting there would be a lot more interpretive work on the viewer and what am i looking at ?
what is the meaning of being crispin ?
it move le i suppose. . and it depends if i had painted it photo realistically or if i had painted it with a high degree of detail it could have done something similar .
but the goal here in that image and every image in this book is the goal is to deliver the story effectively .
and tying it all down by mean of black and white line work is what i thought wa an effective way to do that .
maybe we can talk a little bit about how that came together .
this i think this make a little bit more sense how something this would happen maybe beginning with a story outline maybe in the form of text and then breaking it into a storyboard form and settling on that .
but maybe you can walk people through what doe it take to produce a childrens book ?
because i can look at this and i can say this is deceptively simple .
it is a five ten fifteen minute experience .
you are meant to be read probably multiple time .
but it is not going to take three hour to go through the book .
and thats only possible because of probably many hour on the front end to make that reading process simple .
yeah i wanted to make the highest quality peanut butter and jelly sandwich that i could .
i know it is going to take second to consume or minute .
but i know from personal experience the book that i loved growing up those little those few minute where your parent are reading to you or you are reading by yourself can have outsized impact down impact down the line .
yeah with this book in particular i started with an image of a boy jumping through a puddle .
that wa what i wanted .
i did not have any idea what wa in the puddle .
i did not there wasnt rose the sibling the little sister wa not around at that point .
i liked the idea of a backyard adventure .
a puddle is something that everybody can relate to .
weve probably all jumped in one .
there it is .
i thought thats a great little entrance to a world that anyone can access in their backyard .
i started there .
and then also and then the next thing that came wa the color palette .
i had this very specific idea in mind for this pop of yellow the yellow rain jacket against gray and green and blue of a a rainy day .
i had the color palette .
i had the boy jumping through a puddle .
and then from there it wa i wa bouncing between image and text .
i would sketch some idea and then write some word that would maybe that would could go with those image .
and it wa a lot of trial and error .
i would take one direction until i wa bored or confused .
and then i would back up to where i wa still interested and then take that and run with it .
and that wa the process .
anytime i got bored i scrapped it went back to where i still liked it and then kept running from there .
the story took shape once .
i think once i decided that he wa going to jump through the puddle and fall into an ocean and meet up with a crew of his own his own crew of pirate frog that made me happy .
i ran the fact .
yeah it wa there nothing wrong with that .
yeah i remember the feeling very vividly of him the wish fulfillment for a kid of having your own crew of pirate frog waiting to do your bidding seemed it wa a worthwhile endeavor .
and then because there needed to be a story and not a boy and his pirate frog doing whatever they wanted i introduced the rose his sister .
and then the story became more about it became about their relationship .
how doe a brother how do a brother and a sister work together in this world thats fantastical and a whole lot of fun and very rainy ?
the story wa your original creation ?
thats beautiful .
that i did not expect .
and you struck that balance beautifully i thought .
thank you .
yeah i am glad to hear that you are picking up on that because that wa what i set out to do .
once the sister came along it wa when i got excited because i knew that it could be done it is been done before .
how do you have a female character who strong in a uniquely feminine way ?
how do you have a boy character who strong in a uniquely masculine way such that they do work together and it elevates both of them in their particular station ?
it is too easy to take them out .
and i wanted to figure out a way to have both of those thing in harmony in one story .
what is it ?
this book is for five to tenyearolds .
thats what the rough age range .
yeah i wrote it for my girl and they are age six to two .
i have a sixyearold a fouryearold a twoyearold and a twoyearold .
but yeah this is probably bad to admit but age never factored into what i wa thinking along the way .
i wa sixyearold in general .
thats something that the parent parent needed to it a because they are the one reading it to the kid .
a you were writing the story what resource did you turn to to try and find how to strike that balance between the sibling where the little girl could have a very valuable role in the story without stepping on the boy role in the story and vice versa ?
honestly it wa a lot of miyazaki .
he one of the few creator that get feminine strength i think .
it wa important that rose in this story not have a character arc .
all the angst and frustration is on crispin side .
he the one that is desperate to find this lightning blade and loses it at his little sister because he frustrated .
rose on the other hand she say what she want on the first page and by the end of the book she get exactly what she want .
she never loses her cool .
she never get in the way of the mission .
in fact shes vital to the mission .
miyazaki doe that in most of his story .
his female character are great .
there a few that are not great but in general that wa the flavor that i wanted to highlight in this story .
thank you for pointing that out because there wa something about the two character that i couldnt put my finger on but you nailed it .
yes crispin ha the angst he ha the arc he ha the journey in his particular way .
then you have rose and shes a consistent force throughout .
i guess i picked up on that but i couldnt quite ... there wa a relief in encountering her character not in the completion of the story but also the role that she play .
there a lot going on in this story .
yeah there a lot .
rose part of the critique i got early on when i wa showing draft of this around wa that she wa not interesting a a character because she had no character arc .
but that only told me that i wa on the track because not every character need to have an arc to be compelling .
rose is somebody who know who she is she know what she want and because shes unflustered by the chaos around her everything conforms to her vision .
she compels this rowdy crew of pirate frog by not reacting to them .
i think thats something that is incredibly important for especially younger girl to learn is reacting is never helpful .
by reacting you are putting that other person in charge .
if you stay calm keep your emotion in check you can control any situation that youve been given .
thats wonderful .
that i did pick up on in a couple of the scene that she wa very nonreactive in environment where i think the opposite is portrayed in culture where girl are encouraged to be reactive .
there one particular scene i am thinking of you probably know the one where shes confronted with a big challenge very suddenly did not go the way that she wanted to .
her response is here we go again .
in a very grounded way .
glad to hear you say that .
i thought too .
thats the part a i wa working the way through the story .
how is it going to balance this without it seeming demeaning ?
i know thats of course what everyone in moscow get accused of being not what they are .
i think pastor doug did the theobros essay a couple day ago and he wa talking about that .
you managed to strike that balance very of her being in a i guess we call it the domestic role but it not but it being an enhancement of her character in the story in general .
yeah yeah it is a big dumb boring lie that the domestic role is uninteresting and unfulfilling .
i think it is yeah one of feminism biggest crime is that it produce incredibly boring character boring people .
it is uncompelling .
i made sure yeah i wanted rose to offend all the wrong people .
shes at what point the pirate yell at the dragon to give u back our maid .
it is i leaned into the stereotype a much a i could because in this day and age in any day and age the stereotype they ring true for a reason .
yeah and also i have three little girl .
ive noticed that they tend to be feminine .
they are not they are not out there playing with truck and making up turning everything into a gun .
they everything they touch turn into a nest or a baby or some cooking utensil .
and nobody taught them that .
thats who they are .
and it is glorious .
why would i want to make that ?
why would i want to turn them into something that they are not ?
yeah i wanted rose to be strong compelling and maintain while maintaining her femininity .
and crispin got to be a little he very obviously a little boy .
it is he not a he not a man doing little boy thing .
he a little boy with little boy emotion on this big quest .
and i got the balance of the character .
and thats the thats the the only two character of the book are crispin and rose .
and you you balanced it .
and that that wa the thing that i think struck me .
again this is a little kid book which is that way that there much to unpack in a little kid book feel completely appropriate at the same time .
but you you managed to also crispin feel authentically a little boy .
he a little boy on an adventure with little boy emotion .
and and he brings his sister along the most reluctantly but she play a role in the story .
it is a there something i do not know i do not feel ashamed to say that it is a very powerful story that you crafted and along with the visuals a . thank you .
yeah i appreciate it .
i had a copy of the first hello ninja book which i won in an nsa raffle .
that but i can not find it .
i moved recently .
maybe it is in a box or maybe i donated it and i have a lot of little kid running around .
i am not what am i going to read this to ?
maybe you could talk a little bit about that project a . yeah .
that wa that wa the first thing that nate and i worked on together .
that wa i think i wa still a senior in college when i jumped onto that .
and he he wa curious about the board book market .
he wanted to try something .
he wrote i think he wrote three one one wa hello ninja one wa blah blah black sheep .
and then maybe the third one never got written but there wa another third one with zebra i believe .
but yeah my goal with ninja wa i wanted to make a board book that did not look a lot of the board book that i had seen .
i wanted something that wa colorful had depth wa fully painted .
it wa all digitally done .
it wasnt traditional paint but i wa a art student at the time .
i wa trying to paint thing that i wa practicing what i had been seeing .
i wanted different lighting situation different color palette .
and that wa that wa it .
that wa a far a i wa thinking with that book .
and then it went out there it made it way into the starbucks pick of the week which wa one of nates other book .
a sample of it wa going to be out there .
somehow that failed through .
that went .
from there it made it way into target .
and at that point i think nate and i were both thinking this is it couldnt go any further than this .
we had moved on creatively .
at least i had .
but then nates agent in la picked it up and decided to run with it .
and she shopped it around to a bunch of different studio .
and it ended up at netflix against all odds .
and i think two thousand and eighteen wa when we started working on the show with a studio up in vancouver called atomic cartoon .
and nate wa a producer and a writer .
i wa a design consultant and a designer a . we both had some creative control throughout the whole process .
what wa that process watching that experiment reach the height of culture in some way ?
it wa fantastic .
i learned a lot along the way .
and probably more looking back is where all the lesson came from .
but very grateful for it .
i assumed that anything i touched from that point on would be swept up into the machine and make million of dollar and be a huge hit .
thats what i assumed .
it hasnt worked out exactly that .
but lot of lesson were learned .
it wa a great process .
working with netflix wa pretty great .
working with atomic cartoon wa fantastic .
they were all talented and very professional people .
overall it wa a fun experience .
yes ha yet to be replicated but we are working on it .
what is the hello ninja series about ?
whats the overall vision ?
what were you guy trying to achieve with it originally ?
and then how did that take shape a it blew up ?
yeah nate could probably tell you more about the original vision .
i know it wa the original vision for me wa make it a fun a possible .
he handed me the manuscript and i thought how can i squeeze a many fun thing to paint a possible into this little short boardbook ?
that wa my goal .
make it full of light .
and that vision make it fun wa maintained throughout the whole process .
but once it wa turned into a show we were very consciously trying to make a show that wa genuinely healthy for kid imagination .
the goal wa not to provide a little escape from reality .
we wanted something that would encourage kid on their own journey to become better character themselves .
we wanted to enforce play pattern behavior imaginative adventuring that would be imitated by the viewer in a way that wa constructive healthy normal .
because we knew all the competition wa doing the same but pointing kid in the wrong direction for the most part .
it became one of netflixs most expensive snack that they ever made for kid at least .
that wa expensive .
they it wa a year of production .
lot of money and time and manpower wa made wa put into this show that it is four season each episode is maybe ten minute long .
we wanted to leave the audience better than we found them .
there were a few battle we had about when there were some feminist tendency that we are trying to creep in or this or that the other thing .
but overall it wa in a whole lot that we had to fight about .
yeah i am proud of it .
i am happy to have got to be a part of it .
and i think it is a good a good solid show .
yeah that wa going to be my next question .
a you bring this healthy wholesome kid story into netflix which for me i imagine that it is somewhat of a meat grinder to take a good idea and twist it around into some woke zombie version of what it once wa .
to hear that it came out true to the original vision is thats pretty encouraging to me .
yeah god wa very kind .
and i think we we were teamed up with the people .
and netflix this wa before this wa before two thousand and twenty .
this wa before thing that netflix went extremely woke .
they already were but there no way that two white guy myself and nate could go make a show about a little japanese boy today with netflix at least .
and maybe itll swing back who know .
but we i think we snuck in at the tail end of when that would be acceptable and workable .
yeah i do not know .
the biggest lesson wa all i can do is the best that i can do at the time .
and if god chooses to bless it then no one going to stop him .
that wa it .
maybe you could say more about that because i imagine that there are probably some parent listening and listening and probably some some creatives a who of course ive had my own creative process that ive been involved in .
again photography wa a big one for me .
but maybe you can speak more about that about trust doing the best you can and trusting god with the result .
yeah thats pretty much it .
it is you want to do the best you can that if god doe bless it you are not embarrassed once it is out there and fake .
but also that if you make something to a certain if you make something excellent it will get out there .
i think cream rise .
but the the rising thats all god .
a an artist all you can focus on focus on is making great cream .
do what you can to make your craft a excellent a possible .
position yourself if you can with the people to make it go .
but we plant water but it is god who brings the increase .
everything ive worked on since ninja is ha not gone a nearly a explosive .
but i am it doesnt bother me because i am still i know i am doing the same thing that i wa doing then for whatever reason nothing ha worked out quite the same way .
but god god is the one thats going to bless it or not when he feel it .
i think there real wisdom of that .
ive had some tweet go mega viral around the world .
and if i keep trying to achieve that same thing again not even maybe i maybe ill get there but ill drive myself crazy trying to do it .
when ultimately when something that is happening it is this is clearly a god thing .
and praise him for making this possible .
but i am not gon na i am not gon na be able to make lightning strike twice .
i have to do the best job that i can with everything that i put my hand to .
and god will take care of the rest .
you said something interesting too .
you said put your all into it that you are not embarrassed .
because i guess it is possible that something could do .
and it is there a typo there or there a mistake there .
god can do that a which i i tend to forget that. . and ninja wa interesting because the first version of the book that you apparently have somewhere in a box .
i wa a student when i made it .
it wa a little bit i look at it now and i think wow thats i could do much better .
i did what i could .
and he took it and ran with it .
and then we ended up selling the book right to harper collins .
and they went they went and made four four new ninja book .
we remade the first book .
we made another one .
and then we made two spin off .
and i wa able to go back and recreate the first book with four year of artistic expertise under my belt which i wa grateful for .
i could tinker with it once it wa already out there which is not an opportunity that is often given to artist .
yes i can i can relate to that where i go back and listen to something maybe an interview that i did or something that .
and i look at that and it is i would do that much better. . thats part of it .
maybe you can talk a little bit about thinking back on your experience a an artist especially for the parent who are listening what can what can they do ?
what helped you cultivate your gift and ability that wa unique to your upbringing ?
maybe some some teacher that made a difference maybe some thing that your parent did that gave you an added push in your gift .
because i imagine there probably more than a few parent listening that have spotted what they think or what might even be genuine artistic talent and interest in their child .
and that they do not know how to cultivate that because they do not have it themselves .
you can share a little bit about that maybe some of the individual or some of the decision that were made for you to help to help shepherd you in a particular direction .
i think there two two answer to that question .
the first is that my parent were never concerned about my desire to become an artist .
they were only ever encouraging which i wa very grateful for because instead of making me complacent and lazy in my pursuit of artistic excellence i only ever wanted to please them .
it wa it wa encouraging that they were only ever encouraging obviously .
they werent trying to hold me back or they werent asking me question how are you going to make money ?
maybe they ought to have been .
they never worried about it .
they only ever encouraged me bought me art supply gave me art lesson .
and that made me want to work hard to not let them down i guess .
and then my high school basketball coach i credit him the most with the work ethic .
even interest only get you far .
you can love something you can be good at it .
but unless you are unless you have the skill set the muscle memory that it take to show up and put the work in all that interest and intent is not going to go anywhere .
i learned my work ethic what little work ethic i have come from high school basketball .
high school basketball wa where i learned to keep pushing even when i wanted to lie down and give up and be done .
athletics combined with nothing but encouragement from my parent i think enabled me to make it a a professional artist .
and then ill say one more thing .
our high school basketball team wa not very good .
we lost a lot .
and at the end of the game the score wa always objective and it did not care about how you felt .
artist can tend to be coddled .
their emotion can be coddled by their parent by their peer because the artistic temperament is given a free pas because thats the way that artist are .
and let not well leave them there .
they are weird .
they are weird but they need artist need to be in absolute control of their emotion that when you put something out into the world and it doesnt go it is you are not affected by it .
develop a thick skin get used to losing but do not ever settle with losing .
keep grinding keep pushing always be chasing that excellence .
can you talk a little bit more about that ?
because it seems that tie into some of what we said about nonreactivity .
it tie into discipline and it tie in also to the only way that we achieve excellence is through failure ?
and i think that there a tendency that we have in culture today and i think it show up across culture to not tell somebody when theyve failed at something which doe them a great disservice .
you have to you said a basketball score is objective .
but if we are afraid to tell somebody when it doesnt how will they know what it take to produce something that doe ?
and i think a lot of the hesitation that people have is i do not want to hurt their feeling .
maybe they need their feeling to be hurt .
they do not intentionally hurt their feeling ?
i am going to get them but you have to maybe you can talk to them because you had to work through that .
every professional artist that ive ever met ha had to work through countless failure emotionally ?
the thing that they liked they put that out there and it is no it doesnt work .
this is amazing ?
maybe you can talk some because thats the professional side of being an artist .
yeah it is it is cliche .
it is not how many time you get hit but how many time you get back up .
it is can you do it over and over again ?
and yeah being an artist you are putting your whole soul into something .
when you are creating it it is you are you are god .
this is amazing .
it is the inspiration is flowing .
and then you put it out there .
it get ten like on social medium which is or or you put it out there you can not see your mom and they go thats nice .
slap it on the fridge and it is in the in the trash the next day .
yeah it is funny .
this is my girl will not stop drawing which is good .
they are they are good at it and they love it .
they are making book constantly .
but this is something that we are dealing with there six and four but when i throw away their drawing all the time because at first i wa trying to keep everything because i did not want to hurt their feeling .
and i wanted to i wanted to have this record of this pure artistic expression .
but i realized quickly that that wa not helping them grow .
well put it on the fridge for a day maybe .
and then it is in the trash because it is onto the next one .
if it is excellent ill stick it in a frame put it on the wall .
but and once yeah now they are they are comfortable with their drawing being trashed all the time not by me but thrown into the trash .
and thats i think it is a thats the mindset that i think every artist need to cultivate is that the work is work .
it is not who you are .
it is it is it is something that you are producing in order to bless other people .
if they are not blessed by it you can not get offended at that .
if you put it out there and nobody like it all that tell me is that you put it out there a because you wanted praise you wanted your own ego to be scratched and you wanted your friend to say wow i could never do that .
but the whole point is that you are making food for somebody el soul .
you want them to be uplifted encouraged inspired .
then if you frame it that way you put something you put a painting up on the wall and nobody is uplifted or encouraged that wouldnt make any sense to throw a fit about that .
and then hopefully it will achieve it goal .
can you talk about if youd be willing to one of your experience where there wa something that you were particularly attached to and you put it out there and it maybe went over a lead balloon and you had to work through that ?
maybe there have been too many to count but i can not remember .
i think my ditch might be on the other side where i preemptively despise my own work that when somebody else doesnt it i can i beat you to it .
i also think it is not any good .
there that other thats i think thats my ditch is to be a little more to cut the cord a little too readily maybe or to be to throw it out there and move on .
yeah i can not sorry i can not recall a time when i wa devastated that somebody did not what i did .
i am sure it happened .
i know it happened but i do not know .
no what i am getting at i think and that make a lot of sense that you would preemptively dismiss your own work for fear of being hurt and you are that is definitely a ditch .
it is easier to leave something unfinished or keep it private than to subject it to someone looking at it .
and because you think something is amazing doesnt mean anyone else will but you also have to think it is amazing too .
maybe i am i do not know i am putting my thought together the way .
thats all it all make sense .
i think yeah going back to the other ditch where if you are out there trashing your own work before anyone else can thats a selfish a looking for the ego trip where you are looking for praise .
either you are looking for praise or you throw it out there and then you say it is bad .
thats a selfish and a gross .
you should stop it .
it is and it is also a disservice to the to your audience .
if you throw something out there and it doe connect it doe bless them they do it .
and then you are out there saying it is no good .
you are telling those people that their taste is bad and that this thing that they genuinely had affection for is dumb from maybe one of their hero it is trashing your own work is selfish .
looking for praise is selfish .
the whole point is i said to bless somebody else .
if it is about you it is going to end in tear .
it is challenging because at the end of the day you are the one that ha to make it .
it is your taste your skill level your time blood sweat and tear that is going into this project .
you do have to it .
and you do have to know it intimately inside and out to make it before you can ship it .
but at the end of the day you are cooking a meal you are making something to feed somebody else .
and when you look at it that way you do not want to be the chef that put something on the table and say yes i could have done better .
or there wasnt a much salt .
and everyones enjoying the meal .
and you are over here saying yeah it wasnt salty enough .
sorry apologizing for it and ruining everybodys experience .
put it out there and make a flag a note .
next time the meal will be a little bit better .
next time itll be a little bit better .
and do not make it about yourself once you start once it is out there .
can you think addressing the other ditch then can you think of when you had to learn how to accept praise ?
because that is definitely a thing where people do not know how to graciously someone say thats amazing .
and if the tendency is to say no no it is terrible no you want to honor them in their experience maybe you can talk about that .
yeah this is going back to basketball one of my friend one of my teammate his dad told him look at the end of the game if somebody say good game doesnt matter if you won or lost all you have to say back is good game .
you do not you do not need to say i shot poorly or yeah and then or flatter them .
and you did great too .
and then if somebody yeah the more i make thing the more i realize that it is not it is i am showing up and putting stuff together .
but the idea and the art come from somewhere else .
i am an archaeologist discovering something .
thats what it feel .
when somebody else come and say i loved this i am i am free to say thank you .
i also thought that wa great .
wasnt it awesome ?
and it is this it is something thats divorced from my own ego my own pride .
and we are free to enjoy it together because now it is out there .
it doesnt belong to me anymore .
it is this artifact floating in the wild .
yeah if somebody praise you say thank you .
thats it .
and it is yeah then you bite your tongue .
i still feel that .
do not say ill do better next time or do not trash your work .
but definitely definitely do not rely on praise a a fuel to keep you going .
it is praise is nice .
it is encouraging .
but it is not you are not gon na you never learn from it .
say say more about that .
you are the best .
i wish i could draw you whatever it is .
and then that becomes your the end goal of what it is you are doing .
that praise is it is gon na stunt your growth because you are not gon na learn anything .
if you do not if you throw something out there no one offering constructive criticism .
they are they are making your head a little bit bigger .
and the worst thing you can do a a creative is learn to rely on that or to even worse to love it to love praise .
you should you should always feel a little bit uncomfortable when somebody say great job this is awesome .
you do not and praise is good because it mean that somebody else wa blessed .
thats thats all it tell you .
but if you throw something out there and you get a criticism thats helpful data .
because now you can go back and say this did not land either because the audience missed it or because i failed to deliver .
and if i failed to deliver then you can go say how wa it this story ?
wa it color drawing ?
and then you can dissect it .
and maybe they maybe the audience picked up on something that they think is the problem but you have to be intelligent enough to identify the problem somewhere else .
you fix it over here and then that particular reaction go away if that make any sense .
that when people do not something thats when i pay attention .
because then i then you have to ask why did not they it ?
is it their problem ?
is it my problem ?
is it the worst problem ?
and then once you identify a problem then there an opportunity for education and growth .
and thats exciting .
growth is always fun .
and thats why it is important to subject yourself to valid criticism even though it might hurt your feeling even though you have an emotional attachment to something .
the royal u of course thats the way that you are going to grow is by finding out what work and what did not from an objective observer not friend not family ?
who they of course they are going to love what you do because they love you .
but there is something about no you put it up and you let the public look at it and you let them tear it apart .
yeah it is terrible but you got to do it .
yeah absolutely .
maybe you can share a little bit with maybe some of the project that you have coming up for either cannonball or cannon press or what you are working on what you are working on yourself .
yeah now i am working full time with cannon press on some animation content that is we are trying to get a now there a show and a feature that we are building out elaborate pitch deck for .
i am doing some short sample animation for these project that we will then go out and attempt to wrangle some funding for .
thats what i am doing full time now .
i am painting on the side .
there the gallery that you saw a a new addition to moscow owned by or run by new st. andrew college .
i am supplying some painting there .
and then i am working on a graphic novel on the other side a . those are the main project that ive got going at the moment .
you are how do you i guess you are all it sound you are always creating something whether you are at work or whether you are working in the graphic novel or you are painting .
is this a constant state of i guess a state of mind that you are in ?
it is all yeah .
the short answer is yes .
i will say that sunday are extremely important .
and you start to understand the way that why god did it the way that he did because i can i know that i can all six cylinder for six week run flat out knowing that on sunday i can collapse and spend time with my family and rest .
yeah sunday are extra extra sweet these day .
do you have a day set aside or a time of the week set aside to do your painting ?
this is because i would imagine there something very personal about that .
this is for me .
this is what i am doing .
or maybe i am wrong about that but it would seem to me that this is something that requires such focus and there a degree of intimacy to it a . or is it whenever it come up during the week ?
and then maybe ill do a little bit of work but usually i try to get to bed early that i can get up early again the next day .
the rhythm of a professional artist sound a professional anything .
yes it turn out it is work .
you mean you are not up at three oclock in the morning waiting for the muse to appear ?
but it is yeah sometimes it show up .
but i am there whether or not the muse is there .
thats the goal .
and you are working on real quickly you are working on animation now .
i think you had mentioned earlier that you wanted to be getting into animation and now you finally worked your way around to that .
yeah it is i am very grateful for how thats worked out .
we do not nothing is nailed down yet but we are all hopeful we have project that we .
but it is yeah i am doing traditional handdrawn animation and it is extremely fun .
some of the most fun ive had in my entire career i would say. . handdrawn cell animation ?
yeah it is not it is not on paper .
we are we are drawing directly on the computer .
but still all we are doing is we are skipping the scanning process .
other than that it is the same. . my goodness .
see that is something .
now i am going to say that is something i could never do .
yeah it is absurd .
i can not it doesnt yeah it is a lot of work .
a lot of very detailoriented micro work in a way the subtle change of a facial expression .
i couldnt do it. . and back to how we started this conversation .
this is why when i am painting i am trying to be sloppy and loose and relax and have fun .
because during my day job i am worrying about turning a character in threedimensional space on a page and it is there math involved it is complicated .
see that make a lot of sense .
we started talking about the difference between a crispen and the impressionistic painting in the gallery .
i know youve got a lot of work to do today .
thank you much for the generosity of your time and walking me and walking u through your artwork .
is there some place that people can go online to find a gallery of your painting or image of your painting or something that ?
yeah forestdickison.com is you can go there .
there a newsletter to sign up for .
the only time i send out a newsletter is when i have new painting which is rare these day .
but then you can find me on instagram .
i do have a twitter but mostly i repost painting of dead people .
thats not my own work .
painting of dead people ?
yeah the master the old the old dead guy who knew how to paint .
i repost what i on my twitter .
painting of dead people .
i should say painting by dead people .
thats not a terrible .
whatever we do not need to go there .
painting by old master who are now deceased but because their painting are still around theyve stood the test of time and they are great painting of dead people .
thats terrible .
what is the way to sign off ?
thats great .
who are some of your favorite master ?
my favorite dead people .
yes exactly .
your favorite painting of dead people .
thats great .
i love the old japanese master yoshida hiroshi in particular .
i love the california impressionist .
edgar payne william wint are some of my favorite .
i love the end page of christmas or any day are a nod to nc wyeth. . and recently ive been reading a biography of the artist maynard dixon who wa painting a little before nc wyeth in the american southwest .
yeah those are some of my gotos .
ive always been a big fan of alfred bierstadt and casper david friedreich .
i originally liked the wonder about the sea of fog .
i think thats still a classic painting but there are many others of his that they are beautiful .
yeah thats a good one .
and bierstadts landscape of the american west is time traveling .
yeah those are great .
thank you much again for your time .
be sure to send people to your website and your twitter .
thank you much forrest .
yeah thanks for having me will .
take care .
take care .
the lighting wa great the scene the environment and my eye made that connection .
for me light and color there a certain frequency i have to feel when you listen to music and that rhythm hit you .
claudio eschen i am super excited to talk to you .
i am very excited to be here dude .
a lot of the other people that have been on before you have lot of conversation especially when we are driving out to take photograph .
and i am excited that you are cool sitting down and recording one of those conversation .
and much appreciated .
i do not know can you give a little bit about your background ?
i think your story is fantastic .
and i think you appreciate how much that or understand how much i appreciate you being a part of the team and our friendship .
i know now you are part of the story and journey too .
i wa born in ghana at the age of two moved to italy .
and then at the age of nine moved to whistler massachusetts where my family and i currently live .
and then ever since then i grew up trying to find myself a i wa undocumented still i am .
but through that journey i wa able to land in bridgewater state where they accepted me without looking at any financial background .
and then i pursued a biology degree .
and through that i wa a freelance photographer .
i wa passionate to photography to the point .
there wa a point where i had to choose if i wanted to pursue a career in biology or art .
and thats where i ended up finding a job a social medium job post in from you guy .
and i wa what i think i am going to go to grad school at massart .
and while i am at grad school at massart i want to pursue a more of our artistic career .
and thats where i met you and introduced myself saying not only i can do social medium but i can do photography and other versatile creative task .
and since two thousand and nineteen ive been here and spend that life .
and ever since ive learned a lot about framing how to present work and starting to be that professional artist .
i wa more of a freelance artist .
i wa taken but i wa a little nervous on being gallery represented .
i honestly felt i did not think i wa worthy enough or it felt very alienating .
i think that thats probably part of that imposter syndrome that everybody ha including podcasts .
i even mentioned to you your brother one time i had imposter syndrome about being a photographer because i never thought this early in my career .
and i am twenty seven to be a professional photographer be acquired by museum have conversation with student teach college student photography .
the reason why i also talk about that .
me with my immigration background i felt difficulty sometimes in the real world .
i felt the digital world there wa no citizenship type situation where you can bring yourself everywhere and still be in one place .
and now i am here trying to continue that journey .
no i think your story is great .
i appreciate all the hard work that you do in watching you go through school go through graduate school working at other job .
because you were working doing the overnight showing up here to put in some hour before going to graduate school .
it is much appreciated because i think that everything you get rid of that imposter syndrome once you have done something long enough and youve hit the fast forward button and you are blasting through a lot of it .
it is impressive .
thank you .
but then also having fun with it i used to be a control freak with a lot of the making .
i let that go a lot of it to have more enjoyment in the process .
you have that wide cherry looking frame that youve used in the ton of stuff .
this one here you found one of the one that you have .
yeah i stood out to me .
it wa the texture the hint of gold .
and it started trickling or doing something to me inside when i paired it with this print light shine from her finger taken in two thousand and twenty one that wa also part of the hanover day show .
and i do not know that combination and the tone of color .
no it work fantastic .
i think it is cool that it is an older looking frame with a new more contemporary looking photograph .
it tie in the thing .
and a little bit of the background of the photograph .
i photograph my family and friend a lot .
and this print is my mom who a hairdresser who started at the age of twelve .
and then my sister who wa a cosmetology major in her vocational school .
and that trickle of passing on not only dna information but the root of learning hairdressing and my sister having that appreciation .
and highlighting theme of ritual practice and passing on information .
now weve talked a couple of time too .
some of the stuff that you are trying to do is bring awareness to your culture from ghana and whatnot .
is the hair stuff .
yeah hair braiding is known in the african community a lot .
and my mom learned hair braiding in a very traditional sense .
and because she wa at the age of twelve and now shes in her 50 that whole journey of carrying that skill set everywhere she went and finding way to create a business out of it .
how do they feel about being subject for you when you are shooting ?
i will say at first .
ive seen your mom in a couple shot .
ill be honest .
at first it wa a push and pull .
but with the ritualness of me photographing the practice of constantly doing it and then showing them and then having a conversation about why i am making the work and what they see and feel .
after a while they started to understand and to the point once the camera is out they ready to pose .
i will say with my mom and sister it wa way more easier .
with my brother it took some time .
a lot of the early work you do not see him and some people are you have a brother ?
and i am yeah i have a brother .
and after a few conversation with him and how i am trying to also express the male figure side of our family .
and he now is on board .
i think it is cool .
it is interesting to see subject over and over again .
people paint the same type of scene .
to see them grow too with the photograph and if you continue to shoot them they become older .
it is a cool thing .
i do not know what the technical term for something that is .
bailey portraiture work .
i do have phase where now i am trying to work more with object and garment and trying to mix it up .
it is not too overly people centered .
and then also thinking about how to photograph environment without people in it .
and now you also added a couple piece over at the james that we got to peek at last night at the opening reception .
pretty received .
it is surprising .
lurking shadow in the state house .
and she talked le to do more .
and lurking shadow in the state house is the guy with the .
and the kente cloth .
and thats a traditional ghana .
thats textile fabric that it is very known there .
and i wanted to use that very fabric that gentleman is me .
someone said that to me and i looked at it and i wa it doesnt look i tried .
thats the don claude side that come out .
and i try to morph myself because it is sometimes difficult to find men of color to work with .
and either schedule conflict doesnt work .
ive been shifting myself to transform into a figure who is a male figure to do performative act in front of the camera that .
and then the kente cloth since with my immigration background i can not leave the country .
i have conversation with my family in ghana by having them send material to me in america and that garment wa sent to by my aunt who owns a story in ghana .
and i wa wearing it and remembering .
. . and thats interesting .
i think it is cool that you are part of the subject matter also .
but is that tricky ?
and it is tricky but is part of that staging .
you have somebody else hit the button .
i have somebody staging hitting the button to the point .
that day wa windy .
i had somebody day to keep an eye on the camera from shaking .
the first few try i clicked wasnt working .
after that i made sure to my assistant to help me click .
because i wasnt getting back in time .
it is it go to show how thought out there .
and up the two that wa the one that came that got second place .
and which i never know how juror go about it .
but yeah i wa hoping that she talked le to do more .
that that shot is me and don were talking about that this morning because when i saw which one were there i immediately assumed that that wa the one that one because that shot is it is it is a perfect shot .
i think it is great .
and i do not know a lot about the technical end of taking those photograph .
i more at the the back end i see a lot of thing when i am getting ready to frame them and that one is perfect and it is i do not know if it is the lighting .
no it is definitely the lighting .
the way you staged it .
because when i saw it and that family the lahans family reached out to me to do a portrait family portrait for them .
every time somebody hire me for a job or a gig in the back of my head i always want to make one or two image .
that resonate with the body of work i am creating .
in the process the lighting wa great the scene the environment and my eye made that connection .
for me light and color there certain frequency i have to feel when you listen to music and that rhythm hit you .
and because of that the lighting i wa this is perfect .
and i told jeff to stand stale the gentleman in the background and ask his family and his wife and child to walk towards him while he standing still .
and i took a few shot but then there wa the leg of the child of the young child brought me back into my own young self when i wa a little wild and a little stubborn and want to be playful all the time .
but and then there the hiding my mom face or a woman who represented my mom a shes not a woman who talk a lot .
shes more about action .
that that wa what wa going on .
how is that ?
and you show up to that shoot and you in that piece together are they receptive or it took some time .
because they are they are supposed to be taking our picture .
which i did .
because i know this child involved you guy are involved and i want to be respectful of that .
and once i got the approval i wa very thankful and pleased and they even came to my show and they signed in person and they they understood and they are they excited and proud to be that .
and when i see that you could see that that could be a magazine shot that you could see it in a museum that .
thats the one thats in the harvard .
don we are having the conversation when i wa this morning i wa telling her how we are going to sit down and we are talking about that when i wa thats not the one that got the prize and same thing .
it is that could be the photograph you hang your hat on .
i am sure that youll produce other one that are you got a long way to go but that one is stunning .
no thank you .
no i would highly recommend people stop by because there some other great work there too .
and did you get to meet the woman that won the show .
yes first .
yes the water reflection .
it is wild how it look a real a you would be in the caribbean and the clear water scene .
shes wild .
i wa talking with bill and the guy who jared who doe the sculpture who ha a show coming up there .
we were closing up the place and she wa still there and i got introduced to her because bill is you should meet .
interesting woman .
interesting backstory too .
yes and i love how shes hustling or how she hustled to get where shes at and now shes an educator at tuft too .
shes holland .
i forgot her last name but i wanted to say at least say the first name .
yeah she wa an intern for warhol .
that wa crazy .
but super interesting lady .
she said that you want to come to the thing because i wa asking her how she made it and she wa telling me and hopefully ill get a chance to follow up with her .
and try to talk to her more because she seemed super interesting .
yeah how shes collecting recycled bottle and repurposing them .
i love that whole initiative .
the whole story wa fascinating and to come to the second place to her is .
a soon a i saw it online and in person too i honestly understood .
yeah i understood .
truthfully entering contest grant .
it is always once you enter you also got to let go of it a little .
not take it personal .
i feel ive had that conversation with a number of people too and it is always the judge .
who know who the judge is and who know if they have a bias against something that you are a style or they want to see all cat picture .
or maybe they landscape more than portrait .
because in their head they are putting together something too .
and youve been on the other side of thing .
and ive been a juror once and it wa for a college student show and it wa very intense because it wa what over three hundred submission and you have to choose three and i ended up giving my stipend away to make it four .
because i wa yeah there a lot of good work .
and i applaud people who do this on a regular basis .
yeah my guess is that youll probably be doing some more of it at some point .
but you think about it .
they are essentially curating a show which i know youve had experience with that .
i saw the show you put together at massart .
a they are selecting the stuff they are i do not know .
maybe they pick out i that one a lot .
i that one there no tie in but somebody got to then hang them and .
youd to think that they are somewhat conscious of they are putting a body of work together .
i am not thinking something .
i do not know interesting .
i also want to break out this one .
yeah the .
let switch the room real quick .
that one is this is one of your early work .
this is while i wa in undergrad at bridgewater state every weekend or i would have photo shoot with people on campus friend .
and kyla wa one of the people that i wanted to work with .
shes very energetic bubbly i wa the color yellow would be a good way for her to highlight her personality .
prior to going to grad school i wasnt thinking about the work a much a more of going what what aesthetically wa pleasing to me .
and then from there i started shifting towards my mom .
but yeah this is one of the first early work and i wa very excited because i wa stepping away from the traditional way of framing .
and i used to either go michael a walmart for framing .
and this is a whole new shift when i came across frame center .
yeah frame and the relationship of how to present the work .
yeah i think we even used this we framed it two different way to show it show how you can use frame and how there not always there not always a or a wrong .
some thing look better than others but some of thats personal and whats to me might not be to you or a a photographer i guess you are trying to get whats to a larger part of the audience that people are drawn in .
but we did it the two way and i think we even put it out and got feedback from again not not a not a wrong .
i am glad i ended up with this one .
yes there only two of them thats good .
yeah no it it mean a lot to me this wa the one that you gave me for i do not know maybe weve got the year on it .
two thousand and twenty one .
yes that one in i the yellow a little bit better that wa my choice in the beginning anyway but where it go is where it hang it ha the brightness work for me .
the frame in of it and the texture of the frame and the texture of the orange it wa wild to me .
yeah yeah and i think thats what gravitates toward wow start thinking about presentation .
with anything exciting coming up i know that you are working on another interesting project with that with the yes if you are not ready to unveil that .
you are from worcester .
yeah you do not know that .
nice and you said are you working specifically with a few gallery now too ?
now thirteen horace gallery is going to be the gallery thats going to represent me .
we are slowing the work of finalizing thing but i am very much excited for them to represent me a ive had many conversation with them that came to many of my show .
we had a few studio visit in my studio in boston it is i felt it wa the time and the fit .
i am sure it will work out for you and i said hopefully that doesnt mean you can not hit your head over to his next year .
theyll still let you put some stuff out in other place .
harvard another one too that working there is that an interesting ... it definitely is .
the creative process a you are teaching some of that stuff too i feel you are reinforcing the belief that you need too .
it help you become that master .
talking about master helped me even become a better problem solver ill say with the idea because theyll come with the project i am what ?
and then trying to break it down and work backwards and execute it especially in a very short timely manner .
yeah and you still can learn from the student too ?
me and jacob talked about that a while back about how you ... people that need to learn come with great idea .
awesome i am excited you sat down with me i am trying to think if there any other thing i wanted to ask you about .
i feel there going to be more .
i feel you are around i can probably get you back here .
but fantastic photographer and great guy and i am excited to see what else what come next and i love seeing you get more involved down this area too .
it is a challenge but it is the great thing about those ride when we are going to some of those place that hopefully well see more of your work at .
twentytwenty five .
twentytwenty five .
i always love hearing the mini story of you young nate .
yeah thats great .
when we bring my father on the podcast well revisit a lot of those .
awesome thanks claude for sitting down with me and people can also see thing on claudio .
claudioeshen.com or don claude on the store on the store on instagram .
yes awesome thanks claude we will catch up more .
day one feel harmonik petronas .
ada opening act fifteen minit eight minit .
okey douglas .
twenty two hari bulan november dan twenty three hari bulan november .
two hari ?
ticket twenty two malam dan twenty three malam dah habis .
jadi buka mati ni twenty three.thirty petang .
nine hundred and fifty .
thats why .
selepas sixtyseventy .
sixty four .
three hundred ribu .
fiftyfifty atas .
fifty atas .
fifty atas .
good morning good afternoon good evening wherever you may be watching u from .
welcome to the talent plug podcast a space where we pretty much dive deep into different and varied career choice that individual take up .
i am your host francis malomban .
in this episode weve got a very interesting personality .
shes a friend of mine somebody that i have seen evolve over time .
her story is very interesting in the sense that shell talk about it .
yeah but gwana thank you much for coming through to the talent plug podcast .
a pleasure to see you and have you .
thank you for having me .
all there is much i want to ask you that i might skip the intro which is the most important thing .
before we do that let get into how no let get into whom gwana is .
tell u a bit about yourself .
i always find it hard to answer a question because i am a lot of thing .
ive come to realize i am a lot of thing .
but recently someone one ill start .
what do you mean by that ?
i think one person wa brave enough to tell me you are freaking weird but it wa a good weird .
i am wait and also i wa in the face of my life where i wa doing a lot of introspection .
i wa i realized a lot of thing about life .
what do they mean when they said you are weird ?
this is what i am about to explain .
and i think i do not know why specifically but on face value someone will think theyve clocked me .
they know that shes this .
but when they get to know me i could be not different but off of what they thought .
youve got split personality .
i am resistant to that .
if i could break out in hive i would probably .
but then i do not always i do not put it out there .
i do not show up everywhere .
hey i am thats me .
and i think it is only recently when ive started trying to do that intentionally but obviously managed in a managed way .
anyway someone described me a weird .
i wa talking to someone else another person that i met and got to know .
thats how weird i am .
ill ask you that .
because i could tell they were when you are getting to know people you have your first impression and then i easily break people first impression .
thats another thing .
i could tell that they were in that space where they are i think this person is trying to figure me out and they can not .
i wa presenting the opportunity to talk about it. . yeah .
then they were no you are not weird .
you are free spirited and you are focused and what you want .
and i am for the first time someone ha described me in a way that i can agree .
and in a way that thats particularly relevant at that time .
yeah. . very very interesting .
youve talked about the personality that you have .
speak a little bit about the upbringing that you had because i pretty much want to understand how youve gotten to this level .
obviously you are bringing played a very pivotal role in shaping who you are now .
can you speak about that ? .
where can i start ?
most of what i can see about my upbringing it is stuff that ive processed and realized a of going older obviously. . i grew up very curious .
and i think i spent a lot of time alone. . being an only girl .
it is me and my older brother. . being an only girl .
i wa always the little sister thats tagging along with my brother and he chased me .
but ill be i am coming or ill cry or manipulate you now .
i grew up i think people would describe me a a tomboy. . i enjoyed being outside .
i enjoyed being active climbing tree and playing football. . but i wa also smart .
i would use my girliness but it wa convenient .
for example if i am losing at the game and then ill start i am no i said i did what exactly. . and then my brother is there .
his friend are my older brother .
it protects me a even if they are frustrated .
i grew up not stereotypical girl and very early in my life getting pretty adolescent face .
i started realizing i can not be a human girl and this boy .
i struggled with that .
also i think my parent and my dad specifically wa very intentional about not how can i say not enabling society to define you yeah yeah a girl and you play with doll and whatever .
it wa very intentional about that .
i remember specifically he would the toy that i had were gender neutral .
i only had one door and it wa the door .
it wa there for some time .
i did not relate to having a door for me i would rather have had a door that ha organ and what and i can open it up .
but it had it had brown skin .
it had brown skin .
that wa also very intentional because i think he did not want the whole .
funny story .
i used to run out .
there one time my brother friend younger sister wait should i tell this story ?
anyway i do not think they are listening .
i do not think they are listening .
but there wa a thing where now i am getting into adolescence .
my aunty and my mom and i think this is what i concluded ?
where now making an effort to say tell my brother do not take her with you because now shes getting into a girly age and we want her to stop playing with boy .
if anything find your friend sister i wanted to play with her .
one of the girl came over .
they organized a play date for me .
but i have my own idea .
and i do not telling me what not to do. . she came over .
i gave it a chance .
i did not know what wa happening .
this is all in hindsight when i figured out that thats what they were doing .
but i wa fine fine fine .
let her come one time and get off my back and move on back to my sport .
she came over and she had this barbie a play set and and tea .
i am this is not for me .
i would go and get a mini meal from the house. . and i would cook feed me and my crew raw stuff .
someone got sick at some point .
then she came over and i ran away from her .
i went to lock myself in my room .
and then i remember the help at the time had to come and look for me the chick wa outside waiting .
i wa i can not play with i can not i can not do this .
it wa at that point you realized this is not for me .
yeah needle to say i think my brother wa very ashamed .
yeah but yeah i thats how i grew up i guess .
i do not know if you want to know anything else .
thats thats pretty much decent .
thanks much for sharing .
i think something that wa skipped wa pretty much highlighting the journey and the transition that you have made throughout your your upbringing and obviously part of the other hood a . id for you to speak into how your journey ha evolved over time .
kindly run u through how you started out in term of the professional setup what you studied and what you are ultimately doing now .
relating to my upbringing one thing i forgot to mention is my dad wa always an entrepreneur. . i remember he worked for paris state or something .
anyway a government something for a bit .
and then after that he went into music business. . yeah .
for the longest time ive always known him to be an entrepreneur and obviously starting out back then .
selling music essentially music related product .
it wa a new thing .
at some point in the beginning family wa involved every employee wa the family member. . and we i remember when the first shop wa open we had to go and paint and da da da da funny story .
i ate styrofoam and got sick and poisoned ourselves me and my cousin .
i wa they are corn puff .
we had to look for ish .
it wa a problem .
hold it being hand on your hand .
and i wa curious. . and i believe you couldnt tell me anything you do not answer my question all the more reason to go and figure it out myself. . you are better off answering my question .
i always that rubbed off onto me .
and it wa the natural thing for me that when i grow up i am going to be an entrepreneur .
i am going to do my own thing run my own business and that thing .
i grew up with that .
and then even when i went to uni and did a degree i always had that in mind. . it is been with me .
what did you study ?
why that career choice ?
for the specific reason that by that time id realized by the time it wa time to go to uni id realized that i need to be doing something that i love doing something that i am interested in .
but where i wa where we are from in zambia and especially at that time i would have if i would grew up in a different environment in the western environment for example i probably would have been in an art school a dance school music school something .
who influenced that decision to study marketing ?
it wa myself .
because why why did not you pursue those those field ?
you i did not know it wa an option .
i did not know it wa an option because i did not know that i would be able to go even i went to uct university of cape town and they have a school of dance .
but i did not know until i got there .
i grew up thinking i am probably going to go to unsa one of these place .
then i started looking at my option i do not know if you remember but i left in palembe in grade eleven first term because then i started seeing there are option to go and study abroad and what you need to do that .
i left because i wanted to do alevels and condense my program that i do not get into university too late. . yeah .
all that wa me realizing that those were possible option .
and then out of all the option i had in term of my grade and what i could be accepted in marketing wa the closest thing to being creative and being free .
for me ive always had a thing about i need to be free .
yes i need to be free .
i need to be free to be me .
i think there only one you .
that wa i knew i had nothing an accountant .
even if i did those thing i am sure i would do it in a way where i wa still able to integrate something thats uniquely me .
i did not want to feel a robot. . interesting .
thats how i ended up marketing. . you started marketing .
what transition from there ?
i got to a point where i had to figure out after my degree am i going to try and stay on in sa and build a career because the stream wa there and ive built somewhat built a life there or come back home .
and what are my option ?
me coming back home i knew i wasnt going to stick with marketing .
staying in sa i would have. . but then i listened to my heart a lot .
i think my heart told me this is not home .
and it is also the the corporate life is the corporate life .
i also got to realize that is it boring ?
i also got to realize that .
i am getting to it. . i got into marketing thinking we are going to be doing creative thing all day making ad learning graphic no no no no no no .
you sit in pitch meeting you do administrative work all that is all that is an aspect of it .
wonderful a it wa .
there a lot of even going through the degree it opened my mind a lot and allowed me to see the possibility .
and not in marketing in the business world in general .
but then i figured out you can not escape the business .
even a an a i realized the amount of work that would have to form a work that need to be done .
i said if i am going to do this formal work id rather do it in my own term .
it is not boring .
but it is not my thing .
it is not your thing .
very clever .
it is not your thing .
yeah. . interesting .
before you transitioned into something thats more you ?
yeah ive had technically five jobs. . all of them in line with marketing .
first one wa a small marketing business. . i did a lot of administrative work .
and thats the thing for you to climb the rank to get to a point where you are feeling you you can make a choice and have more stuff done on your own term .
it is a process .
id rather go through that process building my own customized thing .
anyway it wa a small deal of administrative work .
then i got into the family business ?
administrative work .
no i went to airtel first. . but yeah i went to airtel .
from a small company to a big corporation .
then after that i went into a family business .
then after that i went into i do not know but yeah something in entertainment .
is it three or four ?
anyway about there. . now you get to your fourth or fifth job .
what wa that one thing that made you realize what ?
i am not going to do this anymore .
and i am diving into my own thing .
wa there a specific incident ?
wa there something that triggered that ?
i wouldnt say there wa something specific but especially at that time it wa it is that thing where i am ive gotten out of the forest .
i am much more clear about what i want where i want to go .
even that other job wa a parttime job .
and it wa working with airtel and that thing with them .
i am this again .
this again ?
it validated for me that you need to go this path is pretty set .
no matter where you go it is pretty set .
it cemented for me use this a a springboard for your next job. . interesting .
for those who may not know the transition that you have had from your formal training can you speak into what journey you then decided to travel post that ?
post what ?
post the corporate or the admin .
the corporate ha been happening in and out .
but then the difficulty with that is that it is not sustainable to be straddling the fence .
i would find that for example i wouldnt work towards a promotion because i am anytime now you get then that affect the amount of i guess resource or benefit that you get from doing the stable job .
at some point you have to commit to something .
it wa always a game of yeah .
even the formal job it wa in out i spent a few year working then i go and try my own thing come back to it .
and also because i wa very unsure and i am going through life different phase of life where family is why are you doing ?
why did you leave that job ?
why are you making all up in your face ?
and you can not explain the ive got a hunch that something will pop off outside of them .
you can not explain that ?
it wa difficult .
it wa very difficult .
the decision to go into what i am doing now specifically did not come at a moment .
it is been a buildup .
and i do not think it could have been done otherwise because there a lot that i learned from being in formal employment thats helping me now to manage myself when ive been able .
and it is not that i did not commit .
i wa always committed to making that full time transition .
. . it is how the condition needed to align. . . . you say youve been in and out of that space .
i want you to speak into the aspect of when you entered the art full time when you were this is something that i want to do now .
and i will devote everything that i have .
ill devote my energy to making sure that this kick off .
what did you start with ?
and how did that journey then move on to where you are now ?
my first entry into the art wa with dance .
and it i made that decision when i wa in my last year of university. . because by that time i had spent about a year and some month almost two year training with a dance crew. . yeah .
they they happened upon me one time and then they are you are talented .
and thats without going too much into the because that story is a very significant one .
it took one person to look me in the eye and say you have something special and it sparked. . i can even to this day i remember that day i can remember where i wa standing it is something sparked in me .
and then spending time training with them .
i realized these people pay their rent from dance. . they they are building their career .
and this is what i wanted .
it wa it felt home this is what ive been searching for .
when i when i experienced that thats also part of what prompted me to come back home. . because i am here an opportunity .
but in my thinking the opportunity are much more vast there do not you think ?
but it is not home. . it is not home .
and then also i think thats part of my purpose .
i love to teach .
i am not the type of person whod be guy there a plug this side .
i found this. . . . i am not type of person i think .
i wa i can go back home and also i am a homebody .
i think it is also my personality .
by love being able to come back home and spend time and ground myself .
thats what i wanted to do .
and i took it a an opportunity to say i can take this dance thing that ive learned here and build .
and i wa i wa convinced .
i do not know how the world works. . i wa i am going to go back to zambia and immediately i am going to hit the ground running and boom we are gone .
hey i came back and i saw flame .
yeah but i still decided because for me i took it a an opportunity .
if there nothing this in zambia let me be the one to bring it .
yeah. . that one i committed to that wa my first time i committed this is what i want to do .
it wa in the free space .
i call these thing i do not call it in the table but it wa a free space where you get to set your your standard and not such a standard but work on your own terms. . yeah .
thats what i started with .
but the intention wa always to get to dance .
dance ha been a thing thats been pulling me it is been my notestar .
is it something that you do up loving or is it because of the one interaction you had with with the person you talked about ?
the interaction sparked it .
but i remember when i wa in high school. . i think i wa depressed .
who dumped you ?
let not even start talking about thing from high school here because there are people watching .
let leave it at that .
but i think i wa depressed .
i only realized when i introspected and looked at my life but i think i wa depressed .
i remember i had a habit of i called i would get into this gray space. . and i think i wa numb to a lot of thing but probably people wouldnt tell .
but i think i wa numb and i spent a lot of time in my head and then i would feel i think ive felt let me say i feel numb and what i would do is i would dance in my head .
i would i would be this dark space .
most of the time i wa in a spotlight and i wa probably wearing white white stuff and i wa dancing and i can not tell you what type of dance i wa doing .
but the only thing i can liken it to now when ive known about dance is contemporary dance .
and it would be i think what i wa also doing wa meditating and going into that space. . and that helped me a lot .
even when i went to uni how i ended up in dance again i listened to my i listened to my intuition a lot. . i would love a lot le than i would love to but i realized i do listen to it a lot .
when i went to uni in my second year or i wa the contribution hit me again .
but this time i wa aware of it because i wa going through some stuff .
and something told me you need to be active .
you need to be active .
i looked around for different society .
i ended up in a cheerleading society that only lasted two week .
i ended up in a dance society on campus .
and thats where i met an external person who wa looking for dancer for an amateur music video .
and boom the rest is history .
something kept pushing me go and look for something active to do .
and when i started dancing i that feeling came back. . that soothing feeling of when i would be in my head but now i am experiencing it awake .
i wa there something here in liberation .
there something here .
that thats i can not say i had a thing for that .
then i met an old i think it wa a primary school schoolmate of mine .
that had been seeing me posting dance .
. . and they are you were always a dancer .
i do not what ?
no you remember then i remember that there wa a time i wa choreographing people .
and this wa a early a fifth grade .
then he started remembering that .
then i started remembering this thing ha always been in my life .
for me it is more than a super special thing .
it is a spiritual thing .
nice. . now you talked about how you came back to the nba ?
and how in your mind you were look when i go back and do this i am you had it in your mind how the whole thing wa going to play out and how you are going to blow .
what happens from there ?
i came back and then they were not that but you yeah .
and then i tried looking for some and i found one or two .
but they were doing something completely different .
and it is being exposed to olympic level not olympic level but it wa more advanced ?
people are playing that rent .
and then you come back here and then it is ground zero .
i even thought about going back .
it is not too late .
but then something ha always been pulling me i said for me it is spiritual .
there a lot of my life thats destined to be lived through dance. . and it is also tied to a lot of other people .
ive tried even all those nine to five. . thats me trying to get away .
but then it pull me back .
i came back and then i remember i linked up with a cousin of mine who wa teaching salsa and then thats another thing my brother and my cousin they were into the salsa world because i wa the dance thing that wa biggest .
other than rumba and traditional dance i think the salsa wa the salsa latin ballroom type dance were the most common one .
i wa let go close enough to this .
and then he wa a dj and did wedding choreography .
i am close enough .
everything that i would end up doing this is close enough .
this is close enough .
thats how i ended up also joining him .
and then i wa id to try out teaching .
i think i can teach that .
that also prompted me to get my teaching skill and everything is self taught .
thats the beauty about the freedom .
but it is also the burden at times. . yeah thats i said let me focus on doing this .
and also i think because everything wa you can do anything because there nothing .
that also gave me some fulfillment .
when it wasnt stressing me out .
speaking of the mentorship aspect youve talked about how you pretty much went into something without any form of guidance .
ha that shaped who you are now ?
or do you feel that if you had somebody to pretty much hold your hand thing would have been fast tracked in term of where you would be now .
how ha that played out ?
having somebody starting out some something without having someone hold your hand .
i think ive never been that type of person .
and most of my most of my teacher or teaching come out of a challenge you think i can not do it ?
i think for me that wasnt an issue .
it wa very freeing though there are time where i wa i wish someone could check out me .
because then you make mistake .
but then it is a learning experience .
and then again my ability to say this is an opportunity for me to be that for someone else .
even a i am learning i learn to teach .
but i also i also feel the spiritual side of thing is in my dna to teach my older brother is a teacher my grandparent were teacher even my dad ha a lot of that teaching thing .
even when you talk about the music business even when you bring home cd and whatever and that wa new at the time you are moving from cassette to cd .
and then i would be there how doe this work ?
ill be confused .
i am what is it ?
you break it down .
i think the teaching thing is in my blood .
for me it wa it worked out .
it worked out .
and you say that wa the introduction to the art .
what then did you transition into in term of exploring what is out there within the art industry ?
i have to say for me i never looked at it the art .
it wa the obvious thing. . it wa it wa the way i and unfortunately i thought everybody lived that .
i thought everybody followed their heart .
and this is supposed to be though .
for me it wasnt it wasnt a focal point .
i am going into the art .
for me it wa always the feeling .
with the even with the fashion thing .
i love fashion .
and i wa willing to try everything for a long a it felt good .
and a long a obviously the condition were thats liberating .
i want to speak into film now because you pretty much transitioned from from dance to film .
how did that transition come about ?
anyway long story short i decided to do a masterclass with kazadi film .
i think that wa the first masterclass i think .
and then but i went there to try and network .
because i my contract wa in renewed in the last job that i wa doing .
i wa what am i going to do with my time ?
and where am i going next ? .
and it wasnt intention .
it wasnt intended to transition into something else .
it is the stream weve been going on .
how can we build on it ?
. . for me it wa more about dance .
but also i said i do not focus on the art a art and i do not categorize them a dance .
for me it is expression .
it is the feeling is different plate you use .
you use dance you use film you use fashion you use podcast you use public speaking .
for me it is one and the same .
i wa how can i enrich my journey ?
and my intention wa to find something more stable and structured. . i realized i need to network .
and also it wa the phase of my life .
i wa personal life that i wa in i had hermited for a while. . i wa trying to get myself out of it .
let me go to thing that will allow me to meet up because i know with dance people are recording all the time .
i wa i wa trying to meet industry people that i can get more access to more structured yeah .
that wa my intention .
i wa going to network and learn a new skill .
heck what what ?
that wa my intention .
and then lo and behold i got feedback that you are a good actress .
again it felt good to me .
and i am let me try this .
and also ive always had an interest in in acting ?
and even in dance there element of that .
for me thats what i am saying .
it is one in this .
it is no distinction because yeah you pretty much .
yeah i get your point .
you get into this space which is pretty much natural you are saying it is not even a transition from one element to another .
do you feel that youve gotten to the point where you are not fulfilled ?
no. . but ive gotten to a point where i feel i feel more at peace with even the instability ?
of it .
i might not be good now but that clarity about who i am what make me at peace is sharper .
it is more stable .
i am more stable within myself .
i wouldnt say and i think fulfillment is eternal .
once you are fulfilled in one thing you get unfulfilled with being fulfilled. . and then you want to see whats out there .
youve talked about these two element .
and my thinking is whenever somebody would want to venture into something that look it is going to bring them fulfillment yet doesnt sit with the general populace .
it is something that people usually shelf .
they would rather hide .
how did you get the courage to get in this place ?
i think it come from not to sound esoteric and everything .
it come from my blueprint .
. . i have always been that person .
i wa even saying that kid thats why doe this happen ?
. . thats it .
anytime someone say you can not do this .
i am going to ask why and i am going to figure it out a long a i am interested enough .
. . if i am interested enough already by default i am taking it on .
i do not even know if the ball come from somewhere .
i have them .
but thats it that excites me. . to be you think i can not do this .
but it is not even a personal thing .
it is more i believe thats how everyone should be .
and i certainly believe thats how i am .
but i am no but you can not tell me that i can not do that .
let me show you .
but i do not do it for them .
it is a personal a personal task that i feel i have to prove to myself and in proving to myself i know other people will see it .
and the people that are meant to interact with that engage with that integrate that for themselves who see it .
because thats also how it is been done for me seeing other people defy the odds and be different .
those are the people that drive me .
those are the people that i watch .
those are the people that are inspiring to me. . interesting .
gwana it is it is yeah ive always told you your journey is very interesting .
and and i find it very interesting because it is very unorthodox in term of we have our mind are sent growing up your parent are going to tell you what what career choice they should make .
the moment you deviate from that is you are you are you are perceived to be an outcast or theyll look at you in a certain way .
did you get that negative vibe from your family or people close to you ?
and yes. . yes .
but i think what happened and what i usually tell other because i mentor a few dancer .
and i have mentored some knowing and unknowingly because also in the dance world another unorthodox an orthodox thing is that a girl your age the style that you are doing shouldnt be doing this .
and those who do not conform will stay far enough away from you that they will not engage you .
and if they do you will be unmoved if you truly are standing in your truth .
eventually it dy down .
it is not sustainable when who you are and when you decide .
thats it took that to be i do not care .
it is a process because there different layer .
why do i keep trying to do this thing ?
i am sure the investment that you put in it a is it ha to show at some point because it is not only the time it is not only the spiritual connection that you have with it but there also finance involved .
because if you have a baby and you want to see something grow out of what you are doing there a lot of stuff that go in it .
but i want to also speak into what make somebody successful at what you are doing ?
because i do realize that obviously you need to have the formal i do not know if you need to have the formal education because we talked about doing something even without going to school for that .
but i want to speak into if somebody is trying to get into this space is there a blueprint that they should follow other than the passion that they have ?
i would say the blueprint is know thyself. . thats it .
because anything else is not in your control. . if you are going to go and swim where the current is unpredictable creature that you never could have imagined or dreamed of would come at you then the only thing you can bank on is you .
through whatever phase you are of the journey you always the only grounding thing the only stable thing the only thing you can rely on is you .
and you will not always know you .
it is up and down .
you feel i know me tomorrow something happens .
they are wait wa that me ? .
but that should always be your north star .
that should always be your blueprint .
doe this when i put me and what i know about me far gap and everything shadow badsided everything you have to also be real with yourself .
when i put it over this thing is it aligned ?
for me the alignment ha always come with ha always been confirmed with the feeling .
it used to be ridiculous .
i couldnt even say to people but now i say it proudly because thats the one thing that ha helped me .
how doe this feel ?
thats it .
how doe this feel ?
and then that informs everything whether it is a logical decision whether it is an emotional decision and you learn because thats how life is .
i do not think there a blueprint for life .
there definitely no blueprint .
even if you were in accounting there no guarantee that it is going to work out exactly a the conventional blueprint lay it out .
speaking into zambia and where we are currently in term of maturity how at what level do you think we are at in term of the art ?
i think it is growing .
i think it is growing for me .
if i focus on the dance community or industry definitely where it is at now is where i thought it wa when i came fresh from uni .
and i am this is where we are going .
for me it is bittersweet a that this is where it is now but everything happens a it should for a reason .
with that i feel everything ha it own journey .
i do not try to attach to the idea of it is supposed to be .
because if it wa supposed to be it is whats happening .
if it is happening thats what it is supposed to be .
and it is for a reason .
you need to find whats your place in that ?
how are you interacting with what is going on now ?
doe it frustrate you that the maturity level in the industry are not where they are supposed to be ?
and doe that sometimes make you feel what ?
is this even worth doing ?
because in my mind my vision is we should be .
i know youve talked about appreciating where you currently are .
i am not thinking much where we should be .
but if youve got a conception in your mind it is probably frustrating if it is taking age to get to where you are supposed to be .
doe that frustrate you ?
back to what i said .
i do not believe in supposed to be .
yes ill have my idea and my ideal .
because it is also about perspective .
for some people who had a different experience let say ill use dance a a reference who had a different experience to mine .
where it is now is my god and thats their experience .
where is it ?
maybe i need to understand where it is now .
where is it ?
it is where it is supposed to be .
but no i want to answer your question .
it is a moment type of thing .
and there are time where it is great .
for me i think my default when i am struck now ive learned something ive learned my default .
and i am struggling with something when i am feeling i am forcing why i want i where i want to be and all of that .
i am what do i need to know from now ?
because when you figure out now the closer you are the faster you get to where you think you are supposed to be .
for me i think that that i call it the conversion rate ?
of realizing that ha become shorter and shorter and shorter .
i do not to stress about thing that are there to stress especially when there are other thing that i can choose to focus on that i have better use of my energy .
the perception out there is this specific area dance is pretty much very young in our in our context or in our setup in zambia .
it is very very young .
and you will make money out of it .
people shy away from it not because they are not passionate about it but because they feel it is not sustainable .
can you speak into that ?
is it an area that would bring satisfaction both in term of what you are passionate about a a something that is sustainable for you ?
thats a heavy question because i am now thinking back to all the different answer i have for that depending on where i am .
but for now i think it come down to even i think what i would have wanted to say the previous question is that you determine what success is to you .
for a lot of people and it is normal ive been through that phase a where success is resource finance these world standard .
but you got ta eat you got ta be on that .
you make decision and you live with them and you live with the consequence and you learn and you move .
i think ... my question is is this decision paying off ?
honestly no .
but also at a certain point i decided to not do dance for commercial purpose .
and that wa intentional .
for some people because they are a measure of success is how commercially profitable something is .
they will go for that and they will pursue that .
but i reached a fork in the road i guess where i had to decide do i go the commercial route or do i focus on a different way ?
of course with my track record i focus on a different way .
not that i do not want to make money out of it but how i make money is very important to me. . and if i am not making money in a way that feel good to me ultimately it even affect my work .
yeah thats very ethical of you to stick to the part that you feel is insane .
look you speak about how at the moment this is something that is not bringing in the amount of finance you would want .
whats your motivation to keep going ?
because i know what i am building .
and i am playing the long game .
there a guy called gary vee gary vaynerchuk .
i used to listen to his stuff a lot .
ive listened that i do not necessarily need to listen to new stuff because his message is the same .
and from him i got validation about or clarity about why i operate the way i do .
i am a long game type of person .
i find comfort in that .
i said that wa mentioned off camera but i love process. . even the commercial thing it became i am sure you heard of maybe even let say what example can i give ?
maybe sport when they focus too much on the commercial it affect their ability to deliver in the actual technical side of the game and what the game is about .
i started experiencing that .
and i realized that i am not a i am not the type of person that can sustainably do that for a long period of time .
i love the process .
i love the self discovery that happens .
when you are checking out stuff for number for money for me it get old quick .
and it negatively affect me. . yeah .
and i think it doesnt align with my purpose for an extended period of time .
and it is not my thing .
thats real .
thats real .
ive always played the long game .
even now i know and thats where even the the time spent in company because company do not i worked in airtel .
airtel did not register today and all of a sudden it is a big a it is. . ive learned even seeing my dad build this company from where it wa it is no longer existing now but it is it wa successfully existing for twenty five year .
. . twenty five year is a long time .
ive only been doing dance officially for fifteen years. . yeah .
i know i i know where i laid the brick .
i know the foundation and the intention wa always to get to the long game .
i know it touched on it a bit .
tell u about your journey in film .
my journey in film did i mention the masterclass ?
after i did the masterclass i wa i think let me try and do this .
ive always been working towards that and depending on the opportunity that come i push in one direction .
a lot of the music you sing ?
let me put it out there .
i hesitate because there always this standard .
if you sing then theyll ask you to sing and then i i i can sing and also i am someone who belief i can do anything .
thats what even got me with dance .
i am i can see that i am a human being .
ive got limb and i understand enough .
i can do that .
i can if it take me ten year if i want it enough i can do it .
even with singing .
and you have perfected your craft .
i when i see the clip of you dancing i am how doe she even do that ? ?
for me my attitude especially with my older year in fact it is been throughout you can do anything .
it is how long are you willing to take to get there ?
. . and even are you willing to take the risk of not getting there but knowing that you going through that process is going to sprout many other thing that you even have no idea .
you might find yourself on the moon .
you started through singing then you meet elon musk or whatever .
i do not know but it is something i am a person that belief in that .
i do not have the greatest voice .
i am not with houston but i can sing .
ive tried out some people have heard me whether they were lying or not down for it but i am going with it .
is this something that you want to explore ?
yeah i have started .
ive talked to a few people .
you were collab .
i am not yet at freestyle level but i write. . yeah .
even with singing i write .
ive written a few song .
we are not going to play them today .
that transition is very interesting .
you get into film after the masterclass and everything you when did you then realize that i can do this .
it happened to be honest .
it happened .
most thing i set an intention in internally this is what i want to do .
it would be nice .
i wonder and then my energy go towards that direction .
and when an opportunity come i gravitate towards it .
also depending on how excited i am by it i am i think there something here .
ill move maybe faster towards more intentionally towards it .
even with film i went to masterclass and then it wa it is something you can do .
i started going back to thing that i used to do before where i would when i watch a movie i would sit and i think what would it take for me to pull off this character a authentically a this person ?
i wouldnt think what would it take to act ?
for me it wa what would it feel ?
what would how would they do it ? .
and i would try it out .
and it would come out of interest of whatever character or the movie or the story .
thats where it came from .
now when i am i think i can someone ha confirmed for me because when you are doing it by yourself you are am i maybe i am guessing myself ?
and when it wa confirmed for me then i am i think let try this more intentionally .
now i start going on youtube bless youtube the university of youtube .
and i am looking at stuff and trying out different thing .
and also even realizing in the masterclass i wasnt completely lost because of dance again editing my own video and what i understood thing color grading and that i might not know them on a professional app but i know them on on capcats or whatever .
i understand the basic enough that i can even see i am more interested in this and le of this and but i wa generally interested in everything .
from then for a few month i gave it maybe even a month i gave it a try i looking for i did not even look for edition it started popping up .
and the beauty of social medium is that when you search something for example on youtube now all of a sudden there a connection or something pop up on your facebook or whatever .
yeah i started seeing thing and started following them up .
and i did not even do that many .
and thats where the spiritual side of thing come here .
when you are good with yourself what you need come to you without fighting for it .
i did an online audition for something .
and then i even missed the deadline .
i know my video wa bad but i pushed myself to finally do it .
and i wa struggling with a lot of thing why do you always it wa but then what ive learned about such moment in my life is there always something .
i did not go through but i wa also very open minded .
and it wa it is anyway i ended up in a group chat where there a lot of actor or whatever .
it kept that interest alive .
and then all of a sudden an all the pointer of mine that i met through dance and hadnt seen for ten year met them at the master class .
and then they were both surprised dancer .
what are you doing here ?
and then he wa no i am into film and i work for a production company and i am a writer and all that .
and then sound cool .
this seems interesting .
if you have any project whatever it doesnt even have to be acting i can come and intern for you or whatever that thing .
let me know .
putting myself out there .
remember i said that that period of time i wa intentionally trying to get out more .
i think maybe three no in fact a year a whole almost a whole year past .
and then he called me up and he hey there this audition .
you should go through that .
and thats how i went through and got the part .
and now i am in a series tv series .
you are you are you are practically doing something that is airing ?
the tv series is on zambezi magic. . it is called chocolo .
it is a local production. . and it air every monday tuesday wednesday .
thats huge .
thats huge .
first time on set .
no those are big move .
those are big move .
and yeah i can already see where this is going .
i do realize that having such a routine can be strenuous .
it can be stressful .
how do you keep yourself sane in such an environment and with everything that that you do ? .
it is true .
it is true .
it is let me not sit up here .
i do not because thats one reason why i documented my dance journey a lot .
and i started free styling because that wa a whole everything i do ha a deeper story behind it .
when i started documenting and it is something ive also always had i think from childhood ive always seen what i do a a message. . even if i am doing it for me i know it is a message .
i know it is hitting someone somewhere .
i always project this thing that i am doing .
what level of clarity do i have about how i am going to explain it when i am sitting before it be when i am sitting with oprah doing my interview ?
when i made the decision to document it wa i do not want people it will be hard for me to say remember that time when i want to reference this is what wa going on .
and then you can see the .
you can even see the progression .
now remind me there wa a reason i went there .
it wa how do you maintain the sanity ?
it is trial and error .
and also everything i do is personal to me .
there always a story there .
even in the time where now it is easy to say i did this and this but no it wa going with whats happening at the time and trying to survive it .
now it is even hard for me to talk about let say the struggle .
i know you even mentioned about the struggle with family and whatever it is a very real thing .
it is a very real thing .
and it is not easy by any mean .
and you have to make choice and sacrifice .
you have to be able to live with it .
and thats why i go back to saying when yourself what you are able to deal with .
other people can deal with at my age not being married .
other people can deal with not having kid .
other people can deal with the pressure of their family saying yo why are not you married ?
i want to be married i think .
but yeah those are sound the huge sacrifice in term of whats conventional .
but to me because of what i am getting out of it it balance out .
not that it doesnt irk me or it doesnt frustrate me .
no but the other thing that i get from doing thing the way ive done that are fulfilling to me .
it balance out .
and it will happen when it will happen .
if it is meant to happen. . we are wrapping up our conversation now ghana .
but id to hear from you how what advice you would give to somebody who want to be liberated you .
yeah this following a path and much identifying that opportunity are there .
what mindset should they have ?
and what guidance would you give them ?
i think first of all i would say define for yourself what liberation is to you. . because this for me it is for some people what i am doing is radical. . they do not get it .
and they would definitely wouldnt dare do it .
for some people they see certain thing and they think thats cool .
and i want to do it too .
maybe they are very few though .
on the surface i understand it can look a certain way but you do not know the number of time that ive been i think i messed up .
but this is not for me .
know what liberation is for you .
and it doesnt have to look anybody el .
and sometimes even when it doe you still have to deal with you .
be real with yourself and and strive to know yourself truly know yourself .
and even i can not i am not sitting here claiming that i know myself .
i am much more comfortable with where i am and who i am now .
and i think that also come with age but also what you do with your age is important .
yeah i think thats know know what you know who you are and accept who you are for a long a it give you peace .
because even when i say i want to say feel good but feel good can often be miscontrude to only mean good feeling .
no i even know but when i am when i am being unreasonable this is how i am .
and also it is a selfawareness that how other people receive you because you always have an explanation for but it is because you pissed me off .
thats why .
but to someone else it is a different thing .
yeah it is a process of knowing yourself and use your intuition .
you are where you are .
you think what you think you say what you say you do what you do for a reason. . and the more clear you are about that i think the easiest to navigate life .
what next fonguana ?
have you set out a strategy for yourself ?
yes but i am not about to tell you because well be here for another three hour .
but yeah i mentioned i am now we finished shooting for the season two of chocolo .
and now i want to develop a much skill a i can and fast track my progression and my growth .
yeah because even being on set i learned much and i am still eager to learn .
i want to do that now .
thank you much for coming through to the talent plug podcast .
i think a lot of our viewer a lot of our listener would have gained a lot from our conversation and picked out quite a few nugget from that .
thank you much for coming through .
thank you for sharing your life experience a a your journey .
and i said it is been real .
thanks much .
thank you .
this ha been the talent plug podcast .
stay spidey .
    same enemy champion same enemy trash  combat subdivision my life in wa construction i lost my job got my job parasite ? ?
today i am going to be being interviewed by nadia one of the zen art center community member and shes going to be asking me whatever is on her mind around the topic of zen .
yeah if you have any question for future qas drop them in the comment and well try to include them in future interview .
with that said do you have any question ?
i butchered the story but you get the point .
i guess the question is how can you build that nonattachment to thing and people and stuff that happen throughout the day that that meditation or whenever we have time to meditate that meditation is taken care of the real stuff .
welcome back to the honest art podcast today .
i want you to know that i have been deliberating on whether to do this podcast for for quite a while about a year .
and finally i decided that it wa time to talk about it .
and if you look at the title of the podcast you can see that it is probably something that we are going to weed a lot of men out because of the title on podcast .
if you are a man and you are still listening to this i want to bow and i appreciate you doing .
if you have a partner though that is a woman and shes a creative you might want to stick around and listen to this because i do think it is important .
what we are going to be talking about obviously is the menopause ?
and in particular my menopausal journey and what happened if anything youll know what it wa but what happened to my creative practice a i started going through this huge change in my life because ill admit that it hasnt been fun that the process ha not been great .
but on the other side it ha caused some great thing to happen for me my creative process and for my art .
let me share all of the deed with you .
are you ready ?
first of all i want to be honest .
and i know this is embarrassing to admit but i want to tell you i truly did not think that the menopause train wa going to stop at my house .
now i know that it affect one hundred of woman if we have the pleasure the honor of living long enough for it to happen .
but i did not think it wa going to happen to me full stop .
that happens to other woman not much to me .
but here why .
i wa raised by three generation of woman before me .
not only wa there my mother but there wa my grandmother and my great grandmother .
and when i say my great grandmother i am not talking i knew her and she wa in a nursing home .
this woman made me gumbo almost every day .
i woke up in the morning a she wa there .
when i say three generation of woman i mean three generation of woman .
thats how much either any any of them talked about menopause any of them not one .
there wa not one talk of a hot flash .
there wa not one talk of brain fog .
there wa not one talk of dry anything .
none of them talked about it never heard a word .
of course i thought i come from that special family where we were not affected by menopause .
and then all of a sudden not all of a sudden it started happening in my four day .
i started having hot flash ?
and i thought thats a hot flash .
i did not i did not attach it to anything big menopause. ?
it wa hot flash ?
but then the last couple of year i started having all of these other symptom i could not concentrate .
and it wa even to the point when i have a fantastic amazing team of woman around me .
and they are top of the line top of their field .
they are incredible .
but when wed be having our team call and i did not want them to realize i did not want them to know that i wa having such a hard time remembering what they were saying and the brain fog wa that bad .
and on top of that i wa cry on and off throughout the day .
now i do not mind being emotional .
i i embraced if i think something is moving i am going to cry about it .
i am going to let all of that flow .
but yall it is i remember one time i wa talking to i wa writing a book the book wa finished and i wa trying to decide whether i wa going to go with publisher or not .
and i had a friend who wanted me to meet with somebody who wa in the publishing world .
and i started talking about the book and i started cry a i wa and i thought what is wrong with me ?
throughout the day i would randomly start cry and thing that wouldnt normally get to me that much .
i wa intermittently cry on and off throughout the day which tell me that my brain chemistry wa off ?
it meant that i wa when you get down to it i wa cycling through period of anxiety and depression .
and there look at this up .
there have been many study that show that the highest rate of diagnosed depression by psychologist and doctor is they and the highest number of prescription written are woman in their fifty and menopause .
it is not that we are depressed .
we are not clinically depressed .
we are fucking in menopause people .
and i did not know that ?
but none of that none of the fact that my eye when i would wake up in the morning they would stick together my all of the thing in my body that needed moisture were drying up all of that .
none of that did the trick for me to finally go to my doctor and say my god something is wrong .
it wa it wa the fact that i wasnt sleeping .
and it i had not had a great night sleep and i can not tell you how long .
all of these thing started happening to me .
and you guy know we are not robot ?
and the fact that i wa had much brain fog i wasnt sleeping .
i wa starting to fall asleep on the regular .
if i sat still long enough i would fall asleep at two in the afternoon three in the afternoon .
and the exhaustion that i can not drag my as off the sofa .
and i am not a napper .
nothing say i do not feel sexy anymore .
your hair falling out. . all of these thing started happening which led me to finally going to my gynecologist and saying i need support .
now i am telling you guy this now because i am going to tell you what i did but i am not a doctor .
i know there a lot of different idea out there .
there a lot of helpful thing .
you have to decide whats for you .
i am going to tell you what i did but do not you dm me .
do not come for me in any i am not telling you what i am doing is for you .
for me what wa for me wa hormone replacement therapy .
i do not have a lot of the risk factor and everything but anyway hormone replacement therapy .
you guy within two night of taking progesterone your girl wa sleeping .
i hadnt slept through the night in maybe a decade .
it had been year since i had slept through the night .
i got on hrt progesterone finally got on estrogen and there go the hot flash sleeping through the night .
no hot flash but it wasnt that that i did .
i also i also went on these supplement that absolutely changed my life .
and if you are part of my patreon community if you are a patron from patreon i am going to share on there what all of the supplement that i am doing because i feel i am thirty five again .
and my when friend see me they are that havent seen me in a year .
they are what are you doing ?
whats your secret ?
all of that .
and on patreon i am sharing all of those thing .
but we head over to that .
but all i am want you to get from this is i first i did not know this this wa coming .
second i wa in the middle of it deeply that i did not even know what it wa .
i couldnt crawl out of it .
and then finally i wa i can not take this anymore .
and i reached out for help to my gynecologist .
and there are many resource out there .
again ill list some more of these in patreon .
but anyway that that part sucked .
but i will tell you there were in term of my art there were some benefit of menopause that you couldnt have told me ahead of time .
i think it is impacted my work .
the first thing now that i know now that i feel good again this is important the first thing that i will say now that i feel good again is that i have run out of fuck to give .
and that change and affect your art .
when you do not care who see it you do not care what they are going to say it is creativity for the sake of fun and play and enjoying yourself .
that is what this time in my life and this menopausal journey ha given me .
you you do not you do not you run out of fuck and it is beautiful .
and a a result of that and seeing the response to my work and what i am doing to the response to what i am saying on social medium what i am saying to my if you are part of patreon or my email list ?
what i am saying because the response ha been good now i am learning to trust myself more .
imagine what trusting myself ha done for my art .
it mean that i i self edit a lot le .
i can not say i am completely free of it .
but when i start to second guess myself and my judgment ill be no hold up hold up and ill trust myself to continue to move forward .
that is huge when it come to our creativity .
and then additionally it ha made me more curious it is made me le apprehensive to explore a different area .
maybe it is exploring a new tool exploring a new modality .
maybe it is ordering those those new supply from amazon .
i am leaning into my curiosity and exploring that in a way that honestly i can not say i have done in other time in my creative career .
and the only way i can the only thing i can attach that to is i am in that phase of my life and it is it is completely freeing .
it is beautiful .
because of that it is it is a self exploration for myself a self exploration of what do what do i want to put on the campus ?
and that part of that if giving fewer fox the self exploration the the beautiful freedom of putting whatever i want on the canvas without fear of judgment from other people that ha made me much more confident a an artist .
while the majority of the experience sucked ?
i did not even go into how my joint ached .
while the majority of that sucked when i wa in the middle of it the the fact that i i did not sit back and go thats my lot in life .
guess it is going to die slowly now. . and the fact that i did not do that i wa no hold up hold up .
because i did not have three generation ahead of me talking about this doesnt mean that i have to accept this a my new reality .
i am not that person .
i am glad that i acknowledged this time in my life .
i am glad that i explored what option were available to me but i also am excited and i am happy that i have gone through this because it ha impacted my art and it ha impacted who i believe and know i am a an artist .
this is coming for all of u lady .
maybe you are already past it .
maybe it is going to be coming for you .
maybe you are in the middle of it .
again i wasnt going to do this .
i debated about doing this this podcast for a long time but i do think it is important and it is certainly important for u to talk about .
i hope that wa helpful for you .
if you if you found it helpful and you are watching on youtube youtube please and subscribe to the channel .
important for u . if you are listening to it rather on one of your podcast platform be super great if you can give u a five star rating and review .
until next time take good care of yourselves and each other .
peace out .
hey there rebel .
ive got some good news for those of you who are wanting a little bit more of the on a start podcast and a little more access to me jodi king .
this is your chance .
since i started this podcast ive been in awe of the response of you the listener .
youve been asking question sharing your the episode with your friend hyping me up and i appreciate each and every one of you which is why i decided to do something exciting .
the honest art podcast is now on patreon which is a private community platform where i can share even more with you about the show .
we are talking behind the scene .
we are talking all kind of exclusive content that you can not get anywhere else .
and you can even unlock bonus perk early access to workshop and merchandise .
and all it is going to cost you is one a month .
and then if you want a little bit more spend a few more buck you can get live q and a with me and all kind of other behind the scene content .
if you want to join me get more tool to soar a an artist join me over on patreon and you can find u at patreon.com forward slash honest art podcast or simply click the link in the show note .
this podcast is brought to you by learnmycraft.com now weve all experienced the frustration of not having enough time to practice your art .
whether you are a total beginner or an experienced artist learn my craft ha got you covered .
with easy to follow tutorial using coloured pencil and pan pastel you can level up your animal art skill today in a little a forty five minute .
make practice fun and easy again at learnmycraft.com welcome to the animal art podcast .
on the show today i am joined by annalise lawn .
annalise is a talented watercolor artist from melbourne australia .
she creates custom pet portrait a a a wide range of gifs and print featuring her work .
in this episode we discus technique that go into creating lifelike fur texture balancing commission work with personal project and building an art business from scratch .
plus why using premium material can save you time .
a we talked we both drew a cat eye which is exercise number fifty from the practice journal pet portrait edition .
this is all coming up in the show today get your material ready if you are drawing along at home .
and let go !
please tell me a bit about yourself and how you got started a an animal painting artist and tell me a bit about your medium a . my name is annalise .
i am based in australia this is fun having two different time zone .
i started painting pet during lockdown .
good old covid lockdown i think .
i am not sure what happened in the uk but we had about a couple of year of lockdown .
i do not know if i it .
it is hectic .
and everyone loved their pet and my neighbour down the street were doing a paint off .
she wa doing watercolor powsers and putting them in people letter box .
and weve got a lot of pet in our street .
i thought i am going to paint pet .
i started to paint people pet for fun .
and then my sister suggested i start up an instagram account .
and then kept on posting .
and now it is my fulltime job you .
it is fun .
what did you used to do before ?
i have a bachelor of food and nutrition science which i never used .
it is always fun .
and then these day i paint i now do event managing .
and then run my own market still selling cute card and all of that which yeah it is amazing how going into uni thinking one thing and then coming here and doing something completely different .
yes i wanted to ask you why watercolor .
thats my simple thing .
my mom an art teacher .
ive heard art around me and we got the beautiful cuy nor pallet which these are the original one that i started painting pet with .
and then yeah i i love the flow .
i love the ability to build which i guess you get from pencil .
and i see a lot of people doing pencil .
i thought why not watercolor ?
yes definitely .
i find watercolor impossible .
i can not get my head around it .
i am interested to understand your process and what you do .
what are you doing now ?
now no this is a huge i compared to what i normally paint .
this is fun .
i with eye normally i start with the base color which i can see that youll be doing with the past making sure because the eye are much different for the fur .
where i paint each hair one by one without a base layer .
without a base layer .
thats one that ive been working on .
it is beautiful .
each hair one by one .
driving me mental but i would not do anything else .
sometimes i am guessing you get the point where when you do a portrait you are it is going through the ugly stage you need to start over and then you push through it and you are .
yeah i feel you get that a lot with watercolor .
especially you guy have rubber .
ive had to use a couple of the rubbing out technique when my cat decided to join in a watercolor portrait .
he wa tiny and he decided that he wanted to get in .
id freshly made some paint for myself and he stepped in it and it is a beautiful red pigment which i might use a burnt umber and he stepped all over the portrait .
no in red .
in red .
it wa it killed me .
did you have to start again ?
i wa able to .
there this technique where you flood it with water. . and then you can lift it with qtips .
which sound interesting .
which wa painful because red pigment i am guessing you get it with the color the pencil .
red pigment have that little bit stronger staining ability .
even though it is one of the first color to bleach .
i messaged the customer on my home .
and they all i did not notice it .
it is a challenge if you did the mistake or let say something .
it is .
thats for nothing .
i do not know who ha sleepless stressful time when you are yeah i can not see it .
no i feel that sometimes a when ive done a commission or something .
and i feel i normally only send it out if i am one hundred happy with it .
but there are some niggling thing should i work on it a bit longer ?
or should i have stopped several layer ago or that thing .
and then you send it i always send a picture to the client first they can approve it before i send it to them .
and it is when they say it is fantastic .
you are thank goodness .
weight off my shoulder .
thats i am pleased .
i had that it is normally the one with time crunch to me .
i need it for this day. . . . and then the more you paint whats happening do i start over ?
this is not my goodness i can go bumping this .
it is all .
i get all the time day .
it is always the one with time crunch that always you are my goodness .
this is not working .
the pencil are not deciding to pencil .
but for me my brush have decided to go in retirement .
and then they are my god it is perfect .
it is i am glad you did not see the stress behind it .
thats a thing because nowadays you have to record all of your artwork .
instead of take a picture at nice stage .
and i feel it add to the stress somehow .
that you have to make sure that you have time to stop tape photo tape footage .
then do it and then .
you get in with the flow and stuff and it wa much easier in the day .
it wa easier in the day where you could leave a camera on and do a time lapse .
because then you can forget about the camera and leave it running a you are drawing and painting .
and people would find that interesting .
but now people are i am done with that .
what else ?
but i liked doing that .
it is interesting .
let see what people on social medium .
and i had one viral video of my brush and then post a video finishing a portrait .
and it is a couple of thousand. . it is a weird world now trying to get out there .
yes definitely tricky .
it is why it is good to try and not rely i think on social medium to make your money .
it is more of a way of being out there and showing what you are doing .
but you are not relying on it for gaining client .
because i think it is with the algorithm it can be very unpredictable .
it is .
when did you start doing pet portrait and all that ?
it wa eight year ago now .
eight year ago .
there proof in the pudding .
but yeah you thought we would have seen all the different change the different trend .
yeah definitely .
because i remember when i first because i used to do video quite a lot of i called them finishing touch video .
and it wa when you are putting the finishing whisker or something on it .
and those did on facebook .
and now people seem to hate video on facebook .
they do on my page anyway .
i get no comment or anything .
but they love picture .
it is trying to understand what platform people certain thing .
and it can change .
you need to keep that in mind when you are doing it .
i these day i am i am not it sound weird .
i am not creating content for others .
i am creating the content for me .
the way that i see this my instagram is a portfolio. . yeah .
and almost i have a mentor and she said to me present your instagram a it is a dinner party and you are inviting guest to it .
what are they going to see ?
and yeah i need to show my customer the real me because thats who they are going to be talking to .
and yeah exactly .
why pretend to be someone else when i want to attract the same people with the same energy that i have ?
it is no thats good .
thats a good way of seeing it .
how am i going to attract those people ?
because it is easy to get sucked in is not it ?
and feel because i definitely do that sometimes a . it is but ive got all these follower and they are not seeing it .
and you can get frustrated and why is not it working ?
and then one day it doe work .
and you are thats how you do it .
and then you try again the next day is and it doesnt work .
it is give me give me something please .
god i thought i nailed this .
yeah i got the viral video .
let let do another one. . that video .
it is even a wish to talk .
i feel you have to use social medium what it is for which is to be social .
what we are doing now we are using it to have a live and a chat and hang out .
and i think thats what you need to use social medium for is networking and chatting to people and being social .
and thats i think thats the one good thing about social medium is that we can now you are in the uk .
back then it would have been pigeon .
i am up to this bit on the eyeball .
i am up to this bit .
thats how i am done now .
i wa done month ago .
here the photo of the pigeon .
they are funny .
do you find watercolour to be quite a fast medium then ?
i find it quite slow .
i am guessing that you get it the same .
there much to build upon .
all the layer is not it ?
it is and it is the layer you can not fast track .
and looking at this eye i am my goodness there all these different yellow .
all these different variation of yellow .
i feel it is harder for you watercolour because it dry a different colour .
then you put it on no ?
how do what colour you are using ?
thats what i want to know .
please tell me .
i had that thought the other day of quickly show my palette .
thats what my palette look .
and i think thats what i love about it .
it is nine.18pm in australia .
i got my cup of tea .
i used to paint this late when i wa working and painting .
now ive got the luxury of not painting earlier .
painting earlier .
i think how many of u are artist ?
theyll be yeah .
sometimes i paint or pack order in pyjama .
i am guilty of that .
you can do that when you work from home can not you ?
it can .
but sometimes it surprise me when ive got a customer picking up their order and i forget and i am in my pyjama .
but then also thats me .
i am honestly impressed with these book that you created .
my grandfather came over and i showed him look what ive got .
i am excited for this .
and he but why did you get it on my ... it is my own personal development thing .
one hundred will be using and practicing a lot the poodle .
i do not know about you but i hate curly hair dog .
it is definitely a tactic to it .
and i do not get them enough that it is i said i probably will have a whole lot now .
i do not get a lot in a row for it to be in my brain .
and then the moment i get it i am here i remember this .
and then it is almost retraining yourself .
youve got one in here and it is a red the red poodle i want to say .
i am glad that nobody asked to do that live yet .
ill be watching that live when you do it .
i might turn that one into a tutorial .
i think that would be better .
you can be i am doing this over a couple of day .
do you have ... they havent been taking me too long .
theyve been all about id say up to two hour maximum for these. . and i guess it also depends on what detail you want to focus on .
me and brian are focusing on the eye and the vein while you are going more for the hair. . every now and then i look up and i am you are up to this .
no ive honestly been using this book myself a a way of getting quicker because now that i have a kid i do not have a much time a i used to .
i want to be a good but quickly. ?
thats what ive been mainly using this book for .
i love that .
and when you suggested to me using the paper rather than going straight on it thats going to be helpful when they are today .
i need to practice those curl again .
i need to practice those curl and even practicing in different color .
do you have a ... yeah definitely .
read or love anything that you love when you get a lover .
i have a breed that i owe .
i do not know .
no it is i small that i the problem i have is that i a challenge .
the more complicated it is the more i it .
thats my issue .
give me ten multicolored poodle .
i will be very excited .
thats thats what i quite i also it when i get a customer ask me to do a drawing from several reference photo and add them all together and they do not even have the reference photo that they want .
i feel thats a cool challenge because it give me a bit of i guess artistic license to come up with a nice composition for them using their picture .
and it is a little bit more exciting than being a photocopier .
i do prefer the more complicated stuff .
i love them .
everyone asks me do you must hate painting white pit ?
and i love painting white pit .
it is the black .
it is black that challenge me. ?
i feel black is much easier .
why do you struggle with black ?
there many variation about ill show you on my palette that i made here on the black .
to me this is blue black when i need it to be brown black .
it is it is a interesting thing .
and black is hard to layer up because then it start getting pasty .
versus white .
i am using wash of wash of color where yeah sometimes it is a green wash. if it is you can clearly see the dog being in grass or mulled teaser where theyve got that true red wash around their mouth .
yeah i i love painting white pit because you get a little bit more freedom i guess with the watercolor .
do you use the paper a lot with white pit then and have the paper a the color ?
or do you cover the whole paper still ?
i do use the the paper a lot .
i am trying to think yeah use the paper .
but a lot of the time it will be the backing almost how you do the pastel .
and then build up on it .
lot of gray although i still use white watercolor thats still not the white .
for my card series i painted a japanese spitz and a white a white cat .
and that wa fun .
it wa different white .
it wa i love those .
i am also excited in your book there fish .
there fish .
there fish .
are you going to try that next then ?
i have painted a fish .
and do i have them with me ?
you would this is one thing that i do not think you can get your pencil .
ive got these beautiful handmade wow .
shimmer watercolor .
and this is why i wish i do watercolor .
and these one are multicone .
what brand are those ?
these are handmade .
they are called shimmer drop .
shes based in based in australia .
thats funny .
they are all handmade .
they are nice .
and they smell clove because shes the preservative in it .
thats what i am excited to do with the fish and add those tiny little detail that will ... hello that would look amazing .
yeah thats going to look amazing .
and then you want to do watercolor .
i would to try but i am also very scared .
do not be silly .
it is honestly much fun .
i think it is letting the brush do and not fight .
thats one thing .
do not be frightened. . not a lot of water .
i do not use a lot of water. . half the time ive got a tissue near me and i dab it off or youll always hear me wiping against my jar .
it doesnt bleed too much or something .
then i can have more control because i think thats one thing .
i see a lot of watercolor artist and they do big wash and the wash are watery. . and then they paint on top of that and thats when you do not have the control over the paint .
and thats when it start to go .
i could probably use that technique here .
it you flood it a bit .
and then add the paint and you can see how the paint go on it own little writing and then it creates those harsh border sometimes .
it is a interesting thing .
i feel pencil or my my thought of pencil .
i get annoyed at the pencil not being sharp enough all the time. ?
and you should not should get one of these .
i love this sharpener much .
it is a heavy brass sharpener and it is it is fantastic .
i use it all the time .
ive got my little tabletop bin and sharpen it in there. . yeah .
i havent emptied it in the two year that ive been using it .
youve got my little in the key .
i feel when you fill that up you need to put resin in it .
it look a little in there .
a trophy of your ear sharpening .
but i think it is good for how much you havent sharpened .
i guess because i use ive got every pencil .
i go through them and i do not need to sharpen them that often i guess because i use many i keep switching much .
and also it is not normally a couple of turn anyway .
because you constantly are using it .
have you found it a color that you havent matched ?
or have you been able to match about every single color or blend ?
there are some thing that you get with i do not know maybe tabby cat .
theyve got this brown ochery greeny color that can be quite hard to match .
but then i have found i think this is quite a good color for it .
it is called earth green .
and this is such a good undertone for stuff .
but you wouldnt necessarily know unless you try them all out .
and then karen dash came out with a new color a couple of year ago called what is this ?
middle the third third digress .
i can not believe that .
and this ha been useful .
ive been using it quite a lot .
it is getting shorter and shorter. . i that the nice nail color for you .
this is lovely .
ive been using this quite a lot a . i do not know .
i also think that sometimes if it is not exactly the color in the picture thats .
because it is your interpretation .
because again we are not photocopier .
we are artist .
we are trying to get the overall look and feel and especially when it is a pet .
we are trying to get the personality and the character and the life .
and i do not think it necessarily matter that thats not the exact yellow or thats not the exact green .
it is meant to be what it is in that picture .
because yeah because also they change color in the sunlight .
they change color in the house .
the cat and the dog and pet are always looking slightly different color anyway when them in real life .
i do not think it is that important to get the exact color .
thats amazing .
i need to send you a photo of a customer who sent me a photo that i can use this a a reference .
it is hilarious .
the pet wasnt in focus at all .
because yeah what you are saying about color though if you are in focus ive got a tux in your cat .
but in the sunlight he this the only thing thats reflected is he almost marmite or vegemite color .
it is he black but he got that brown undertone that yeah only sunlight can catch .
yeah i always love pet in sunlight .
i always ask my customer could you have a picture of them in the sunlight ?
because it doe shine differently .
and i feel you can capture a lot more different depth of color .
you get the true color i reckon in sunlight .
and better detail thats always the hardest .
i am guessing you get the same with memorial piece when it is an older photo .
and it is not you can ask for more you can piece your thought .
and you want to i find memorial are the hardest because you want to do the best possible for them .
and yeah wanting to make it look them .
and yeah .
and then it is that guessing game .
i guess thats where the knowledge of anatomy and generally research a come in handy .
lot and lot of practice .
i think thats one thing i realized i forgot about even though i paint a lot and i paint a lot of people pet i forget to personally practice .
because i made this book for myself .
and i thought maybe other people might want something this since ive needed something this because i i wanted to have a chance to try out different paper try out different technique try out different medium .
and i never find the time because i am always doing commission .
and i thought why do not i do little square of stuff .
it started off a my idea wa a sheet of paper of different different part of fur and then try those out .
and i thought wouldnt it be cool to do that the rule of one hundred where you do something one hundred time and then you are a master at it thing .
and i thought when my husband wa will not you do a book of one hundred picture ?
he a book of one hundred picture .
and now that amazon can print i thought i can do a book for myself .
that would be cool .
i thought might a see if other artist need it .
and it is been it is blown up .
people love this idea .
and i am happy that i could be the one to share it with people and make something that people enjoy .
it is helpful .
whether you are starting out or this is your six hundred and thirty twozero portrait .
and you realize that you havent painted an annoying poodle in a while .
and youve seen the headache of the cow and you are going i need to spend an hour looking at these girl in the book rather than looking at the customer per girl .
but yeah i think it is helpful .
the thing that you think i should do this for myself ha become something that people go wow i need that .
i need this in my life to assist .
and yeah with the fact that amazon this book wa printed in sydney .
all the way from the uk .
all the way from your brain to the uk .
from something .
it is very cool .
and i your idea .
and i think i am going to start practicing that at timed not timed a in pressure but time .
ive got an hour .
let work on this cat nose .
because i know that there feature that ive either spent too long on it or overthought for too much over on one piece .
i think this will be good to refining and controlling i guess .
not controlling .
i am trying to figure out the word of ensuring that the quality is the same but giving myself that time and precision still .
yes definitely .
and i also have come up with the there the british wildlife edition of this now .
and it is filled with british wildlife one .
yeah look this is a british wildlife one .
i think you should .
it is not on my list now but it will be for the future .
weve done possum and weve got possum here .
thats true .
yeah that is for a client in australia .
i think i think we need to do .
now it will be on my list for the future but now ive got ten others .
ive been working on because ive also ive released the florals edition .
if you are interested in practicing flower and greenery and raindrop and dew drop on petal and all that stuff thats all in the florals edition .
and then i am currently working on the african wildlife one .
elephant and giraffe and lion and all that stuff .
i am very excited about because ive never drawn any of this ever .
and it is been fun because i draw the cover myself .
all of the one on the cover are my drawing .
it is been nice to practice and have that on the cover a to show whats possible for the bird .
ive been doing that for the african wildlife one .
and then ive got a human portrait one coming out .
if you want to practice human portraiture .
that but i do not know about you but human scummy .
human portrait scummy .
i do not know there something about human portrait that i am no no .
have you done much of it ?
i have done one portrait and it wa a side profile with a dog and it owner .
and luckily it wa quite easy but gosh no .
i will never advertise that i do human .
they i do not know there something about it .
what about you ?
i used to do it all the time for my friend at school i because i did not have any money or anything when you are at school and i used to draw a portrait of them and give it to them for their birthday .
that wa all i did all my friend year of portrait of themselves or a portrait of u together and that thing .
i think i wa born in the wrong year .
maybe back in the renaissance or yeah .
yeah youd be surely paint during the king and queen .
then i could be a kept woman .
but how bizarre she ha a job and she paint .
i think i am born in the perfect year especially with social medium .
where we love our pet crucially .
people love their pet equally a crucially a i do .
do you have pet then ?
ive got two cat .
they are absolutely bonkers .
they are two boy and i love them to piece and they tolerate me .
i am a little bit of a fan .
what about you ?
tell me more about your cat .
what breed are they ?
i can not logistically but it is fine .
ive got my yeah weve got boy and here an xstraight .
weve got our backyard and then we coached him in .
we showed him that fume are nice and now he is he domestic .
it is gon na be evil .
cry for food .
he will beg for him .
he love being tucked up in bed .
he is a he hit the truck .
this is boy .
ive got him on card .
he beautiful .
he an eight kilo cat .
wow he a beautiful cat .
he lovely .
i love him to piece and then we i say recently it is been two to three year .
recently adopted this one and that one percy who like to paint with me .
he a typical tuxedo .
they spray themselves a bit .
hell run after the dog in our street .
he play with them .
yep he missing brain cell but i love him at the same time .
yeah green that .
i think it is almost that color that you are showing that green .
yeah this one this would be a good color for you .
i think if i wa gon na yeah i always practice with my pet first .
yeah i feel it is very handy .
thats it is your water color it is lovely and unique and i am loving how this eye is progressing it is interesting to see it develop .
because normally i leave eye to the last .
see you thats funny .
if they go through that freaky stage i am ooh you do not look .
but then the moment i finish the eye i am yep painting done .
i can scan it you send it off .
why do you to do the eye last ?
i think because i can clean my palette .
ive never i do not think there a reason why i do it last it is being habitual .
but then it varies when i wa doing the white cat i did her eye first .
and then built around the eye because being white it is i wanted to something to look at while painting .
but with the eye i think because they are such a treat .
almost they are my dessert i guess .
and i very .
yeah they can transform you start with the eye .
yeah again for that same reason they are my favorite part to do .
i do not want to wait till the end no i do not want to do it now .
i do not want my dessert after food i want them afterwards .
yeah i always do the eye first and then i feel ive got a focal point to develop because i always start from the eye and then the nose and then spread out from there with the fur .
this is weird i do backwards .
thats funny .
i do fur and then either ear if it is the cavalia ear or nose then eye or sometimes nose ear eye but thats weird .
yeah thats the way that you do the complete opposite .
and ive noticed i do it a lot many other people .
another artist i am not sure if her .
she doe it back .
i do it backwards .
she doe it technically the way you .
there no way .
i love seeing how people work it is almost being at market .
seeing clay is one of those awesome thing that make me go wow .
it is the same mud same particle of glass and material and all that .
and then you put it under high temperature and it all turn out different .
yeah and thats what i love running the market being at a market seeing all the different material same material but different us .
it is amazing what our brain are able to do .
sometimes even the same material with u is ive done color pencil drawing with other color pencil artist and it always look different and specifically the other artist style you can tell who drawn what and i find that interesting .
and it is refreshing .
thats it .
it is refreshing because you do not want to know that there a reason why people go for you .
there a reason why they capture i wa watching some of your reel and i holy moly using the pastel capture those undertone .
that doesnt versus some people they they do not use that .
they do a whole lot of layering with the stroke .
thats wow it is moving more against same material .
definitely can create the same outcome and thats what i am looking forward to seeing the difference in these eye .
same reference .
two artist .
i am going to claim that two different time zone make it different a . yes .
we are across the world from each other during a scene .
it is magical i find it is it is cool to be able to weve both got the same book and we are drawing the same thing and we are world apart and it is it is very exciting .
my family from england and i go yeah you go yeah we are off to the pub now and i am wait if it is this time here how is it that time why are you going to a pub now it is all because i can not yeah .
thats funny .
but thats what i love about yeah the fact that you can go on a tiktok live and people are yeah i am watching it from france .
i would never thought back i am trying to think emerson wa probably the closest to travel chatting when i wa little .
but i only talked to my friend though that i saw at school i saw i go but how are you doing ?
yeah i saw you but how you going what are you doing ?
yeah and now yeah perfectly two stranger can talk to each other on social medium catch up .
and learn i am learning much from you about watercolor i am very tempted to try i do have a set of watercolor ive got these windsor and newton one .
the black is that good ?
yeah it is always i found out many thing going to the art shop i never realized there a brand called rembrandt i think .
theyve got kotman kotman windsor and newton owns them and they have a little bit le pigment dense than what windsor and newton have i love tracking these people .
whats in it ?
i find the their paint are quite beautiful they are nicely mould one thing ive learned ive dabbled in making my own watercolor .
is you you grind it extra on glass you have this glass muller and you grind it and thats what can assist in the binding of the binder i am the great explanation analysis .
it is it is .
you bind it with the binder it is distilled water ive got the other one .
ox skull and yeah you mull it and it is the granulation is what they look for when you mix in it is the granulation when you test it out .
no i understand that ive got i got ta do camera to take to do the video for my tutorial and i feel i am i have no idea how to use it ive looked up instruction and youtube video and it is too many setting .
i am doing it on my phone .
it is too many setting .
sorry this is one of the learn my craft website tutorial .
take a deep cleansing breath .
deep cleansing breath .
thats how we are going to start this podcast .
we are going to start with that .
hey guy it is lost .
and this is the second episode of the apple sleep another apple sleep experiment podcast .
i am joined by a lovely group of people today and we are going to be coming together to talk about the art process .
i am more of a moderator here this time .
i am not going to necessarily be because your girl can not draw .
i did not necessarily help that much in that sense but my lovely wife mag she wa the one who you were the art director .
you were the one in charge when it came to the how the art wa distributed and everything .
and we are going to go over those process .
we are going to talk to a few of the artist and yeah .
let go down the list and let introduce ourselves .
let start with cloud9 .
my name is cloud9 or the life on cloud9 if you want to be fancy .
my pronoun are they them theirs .
i wa an artist for pretty much the entirety of another apple sleep experiment featured in all four episode a me and my compadre over here recently discovered .
took part in a big deal of it .
yeah thats pretty much me .
i do not have anything else exciting .
please move on .
and then we have callisto .
i go by he him and i have a cat viper .
i love that .
then it is me magpie .
she her or she ?
or she i realized it is sound the candy .
i am chocolate and my factoid is i do not know .
i wa going to say your chocolate .
thats your factoid .
thats my factoid .
the end .
a cloud said i wa in all four and did not realize it until today .
my pronoun are he they .
and i do not have a factoid about myself. . marci you have factoid sir .
my factoid is i have no brain today .
and that is completely valid .
we are going to try to get through this .
we got this .
it is fact .
it is fact .
it is fact .
we have nick .
yeah my name is nick .
i go by mindless sketching or nick or mindless nick .
it depends what medium i am on .
but i use she her pronoun .
and i drove six hour .
thats arbitrary .
but i drove six hour to be here .
very excited to get started .
i think you win fact .
and then sunny .
hello my name is sunny .
my pronoun are he him and she her .
i have done lot of art thing for lot of people in the ten plus year ive been in fandom .
ive also done voice acting thing .
and today i am voice acting someone who is not sick .
and then lastly but not leastly but not leastly flutty voice .
and i got over the covid .
nothing can kill me bitch .
life is the best factoid .
the process of doing art for project is a lost come to me and say i need art .
and then i sit i am a computer for a moment and i think to myself can i do it all myself ?
and ninety nine.nine of the time i answer no .
there is that zero.one of the time that i take on too much then my friend have to bail me out .
i love and hate them both .
they are great .
they are horrible .
i go into way too much detail but i feel thats a benefit for artist in my opinion i hope .
not only do i put the script of what it is based on but i will give them character reference background reference .
ill give them the expression from the character the context surrounding the image that they do not have to read everything because reading suck .
how long are your art doc usually ?
this is not for apple sleep specifically but i have a comparison .
there wa a project we were doing and the script itself wa about fourteen to fifteen page and the art doc ended up being one hundred page that did not include the reference page .
but it make everything cohesive and hopefully it make people not worry about whether or not their art going to match the next person .
i am a stickler for detail i always try to remember every nitpick little thing .
and even then i can not predict everything .
and then based on the project we will create a server with the artist .
we did for this one because it wa a very very massive undertaking .
and to be honest it is one of my favorite part of the production process is hanging out with all the artist .
i find that we lift each other up .
and thats not always true for server on discord .
but artist seem to promote other artist or help whenever they can .
or i do not know it is such a joy to go and see work in progress and stuff that is not even for the project .
one of my favorite thing when i am down is scrolling through the show me what you are doing show me what you are working on .
i am interested in all that .
it is fun .
how many artist in total did we have for this for all the project ?
that would have been a fantastic number to realize before coming here .
i glanced at the server .
it look there about thirtyish people in there now .
that sound about .
i think the most on any project ive ever had wa about fifty .
but i think for apple sleep too it wa somewhere in the mid30s .
a couple did not want to be a part of the server and thats fine .
reaching out to artist i talked about this to sunny the other day .
i have such crippling anxiety when it come to reaching out to people because ninety nine of the time i feel they are annoyed or bothered .
why would i want to go back and make more pony art for you ?
there this inherent fear in my head of i am asking too much .
i am asking too much of people .
they are going to be too busy .
i am bugging them .
i am annoying them .
and it is almost never the case .
and even when they are not available it is always but catch me next time .
or i enjoyed working with you in the past .
ill watch it when it is done to support you that way .
but my top priority a the art director is to make sure every single artist feel respected and appreciated .
a detailed a the art doc is i also want their creative interpretation too .
there a reason we go to many different people .
god i love seeing all the different art style .
there a few that came to me and they are i do not know if i can match show style .
and i am great cool .
thats what we are looking for .
i love some people call it the chaos of different style but i love it .
and especially work for a grimdark series because you never know what to expect .
and every single person that wa a part of this project put ten time the amount of detail in each image than i wa ever expecting .
and it is a treat .
it made the story come alive in a completely different way than even myself a the author anticipated .
because i do not remember if i said this in the first podcast episode or not .
a i am writing i see it play out a movie .
and my finger try to keep up .
when i look at other people interpretation of it visually it is much fun .
i have a blast with that .
i try to make realistic deadline with wiggle room because for me it is life always come before pony art .
and there sometimes where you can not make a deadline and youve got to have that little week or two extension .
and i understand that .
i always try to give artist .
i would love to give them two month but depending on how quickly we need it i always give them a minimum of a month to get me an image .
and far thats been pretty reasonable for most people .
because yeah life happens .
and i am not going to be that person to be all upset with them if they do not get it done or whatever .
and with some wiggle room i can either tackle the image myself if they need to back out which again fine .
or i can have someone from the server help .
i said that server is a lifesaver in many aspect .
i know that i had marcy specifically bail me out for the first part of appalachic part two .
i wa marcy i need an additional image for this thing .
and he yeah .
how many image do you usually ask per scene ?
obviously we have a history with doing similar project this with princess trixie sparkle and thing on your channel .
but with my channel obviously it is more of we use one image per scene .
but there are instance where we get multiple image .
this is based off my own opinion of the story and the piece .
and it is not because it is my writing .
it is for any project i go into where i am putting together an art doc .
there wasnt anything else technically going on that needed clarification visually .
plus i would also say too the attention to detail on sunnys image is i love doing slow panouts or slow zoom in when there lot of detail in the image .
and i know weve been very very blessed with a lot of the artist that we work with .
that the detailing is fucking insane .
absolutely incredible .
for narration and stuff that it is perfect .
but in that same part one there are three image in a very short amount of time because the scene shifted .
we had twilight outside of starlight room and then twilight crawling through with the broken wall and then twilight in the room .
and that happened much quicker than different other segment of the story .
i break it up depending on what do i think would be visually dynamic and not necessarily about every little thing ha to be visually showcased .
because a lot of i would say half of the art of this project is art and half of it is audio .
and i want the audio to shine too .
pt a a side note because i know thats another one i am known for doing big project with is a little bit different because it is not audio driven .
it is all dialogue .
image need to tell more of the story whereas this is a narrative .
and the audio is supposed to be a companion to the art .
i wanted to go down the list and have everybody talk about their experience on the project .
there a couple bullet point that ive already given everybody to .
but for the most part though you guy are going to be hearing what it wa to work on the project and what wa expected and thing that .
starting with callisto .
it wa wonderful to work on this project .
it wa an experience that i wa very happy to have and i am grateful for it .
my art appeared in all the episode except for episode two .
i wa sadly absent for that one .
i wa going to say you had a big part in episode three .
i do remember three having much callisto art .
especially when aj pop out of her cocoon .
i do not know how to fucking describe it .
i the interpretation of the monster from callisto .
yeah though when it wa first transforming .
that wa good .
it is a digital software .
ive never even heard of that one .
i wa going to say i havent heard that one too .
you use tablet then ?
is it possible to have a piece that you both hate and love ?
yes it is .
i have plenty of fanfics that that is the case .
yall remember the piece where i finally got to do some bloody artwork with apple bloom ?
that one wa a pain to do .
i loved the outcome .
but when i wa first doing the sketch work the layout of the room messed with me .
i think it wa my dyslexia because i wasnt reading it .
but it took me forever to get it in my opinion .
everybody always mention the little cameo of lost and me in the corner of that image .
it is cheerful amidst all the death .
it is great .
see no my favorite piece is not even a piece that ended up in the reading .
it wa that shitpost art that you drew of twilight back all you drawn shitpost art .
ti a bitch .
ti a bitch .
ti a bitch .
it wa yeah thats thats the whole vibe .
thats the vibe .
when we all found out about ending i guess it did not affect it a much .
i guess the only one would have to be the sculpture painting where i had to know all the face and who had died .
i wa sad about i can not remember his name .
he the white pegasus with the yellow main dying because i wa no not him .
wa it both biceps ?
yeah that wa .
luckily i am not one to get easily upset because there wa nothing that made me upset about this community .
it wa wonderful and i have nothing negative to say .
from an art perspective it wa fun because it challenged me .
ive never done a lot of background piece that before .
it wa very fun from a fan expected .
it wa having an anime moment there because i am crap i am working with two big youtubers .
terrifying and happy .
it is not too excited .
you are a good company for terrifying .
thats about it .
wa close to the one that did the most artwork piece .
we have that written down .
hold on .
yeah we have a doc for that one moment .
let find the doc .
yes callisto did the most .
thats what i thought .
i wa going to say because thats what i thought .
no thank you again for that .
this statement is from spen charlie .
firstly i never thought i would be part of such a big project .
it wa an honor a an artist and a great experience .
i also learned a lot .
i will continue to try and improve my art style and look forward to future collaboration .
thank you lost and mag .
i appear in all four .
i believe i did have to double check on that a . marcia and i are in the same boat currently and that boat ha multiple hole in it sinking .
i did appear in all four .
i did a piece for the the intro .
i guess build up before shit go down in episode one of twilight handing out checklist of all the shit for the main six to do .
and then episode two i wa pinkie pie focused .
episode three i did one for rd and one for rarity .
and then episode four with the big reveal .
that wa i think that wa the most i contributed to to episode four .
yeah pretty much in all four episode for me .
i do try to sketch sometimes on paper to get a rough feel for thing .
i i remember there wa one banner of the fallen that i designed for mag that i crudely threw together on paper .
but i am ninety to ninety five digital on procreate the mobile program on a tablet .
i liked everything that i did for this pretty much .
i say i think the one that were my favorite were for the last episode .
episode four with apple .
have we i am sorry have we given a spoiler warning for this ?
am i allowed to talk about the ending ?
fuck it it is been a year .
if they havent seen it it is their fault .
you have to watch it by now .
what are you doing ?
what are you doing ?
why are you here ?
why are you here ?
anyways yeah you should go watch the fucking sequel .
yeah my favorite i think were in the last episode with the reveal of apple bloom .
i had the most fun putting that one together .
it wa the most i think attention to detail ive put into a piece in a while .
enjoyed that one .
episode three with rarity specifically wa another artistic challenge for me but it ended up being fun .
i got to write bloody message on wall thats always fun and a great time .
my part wa when sugarcube corner get burned to the ground and all pinky can do is watch .
that one trying to draw a building on fire and then the interior where aj is still in the building .
shes in a building thats burning but not burning herself .
trying to figure that one out .
yeah that one i say i do say i had to take a step back a couple time and reach out to people and being am i doing this ?
i think that one maybe wa took the longest i would say .
i liked the piece that wa in part one with the sticky note .
that wa that wa that wa perfection for me .
i wa telling meg i my logic behind that wa because i reached out to meg and i wa hey my scene take place in the throne room .
starlight now the element of honesty .
and they are trying to erase all evidence of aj pretty much existing it seems .
would they make any effort to cover up that cutie mark on the seat on her throne ?
and my thought behind it because meg wa yeah sure it would probably be covered up in some capacity .
my brain they are going to try to erase it and get rid of it and pretend it is not there but they are not going to think too hard about it .
they want to cover it up and forget about it .
they are going to hastily yeah we are going to sticky note some shit on top of it with starlight cutie mark and call it a day .
we do not have to think about it anymore .
that wa my logic behind that .
and i am glad it worked out .
we were privy to some early draft over here .
we werent given away a ton out the gate obviously .
but we did get some early little teaser here and there and bouncing idea back and forth .
a lot of it wasnt for me at least too surprising when it came out the gate for everyone else .
but it wa fun to see everyone el reaction .
can confirm that is one of the best part .
i i love community aspect of any project .
i love seeing everyone el work that get put into it .
i always love bouncing off of other artist and seeing what they are doing .
ive been in project this many a year at this point .
it is it is always fun to see .
i always love the community aspect .
people coming together to make some awesome shit .
it is great .
it is a great tag line .
people come together to make some awesome shit .
i only have one word for it and it is good .
it wa gentle too .
the following statement is from flutterpaws .
working on aase wa a fantastic experience overall .
i got the opportunity to work on this project during a time when i wa struggling to find any momentum to draw .
accepting the offer helped break me out of the i do not know what to draw i will not draw at all cycle .
honestly i fangirled a little bit being able to work with mag on this project .
plus ive always been a fan of psychological horror this wa up my alley .
it wa also a fun challenge to fit all my idea into a single image .
it tested my art block and let me have a nice amount of creative liberty .
overall creating art for this project helped me remember to enjoy the process and not set any heavy expectation on yourself when creating .
because it might turn out better than you expected .
thank you both .
i am in all four segment much to my surprise .
do you remember what scene or stuff that ?
i can not remember the exact segment .
but i know for episode one i wa near the beginning .
no no maybe towards the middle .
for applesuite specifically i only used a tablet for procreate .
but funnily enough i now i have my own .
but at the time i wa using cloud tablet to draw everything .
it wa interesting trying to find time to trade off the tablet for each of u to do our segment .
mom said it is my turn with the ipad .
let me tell you a little thing about brick .
there wa two to start out there are two segment that i enjoyed .
one of them wa a mag referred to it a her rescue piece where she forgot to put in a segment for art .
and i came in the first episode and did it for her and it is twilight in her room .
i liked that one .
and then there wa another one i liked with pinkie pie and applejack in sugarcube corner .
i love the detail and stuff on that one .
but the thing that got under my skin is for my first segment i decided let draw twilight walking up to her basement door .
and obviously it is in a castle basement there all your brick for you .
and i wa i can do that .
i can individually shade all these brick .
and after that segment wa done i messaged in the server and said i am never drawing another brick ever again .
episode four i am i am going to jump on this .
i am going to be one of the first to pick a segment .
and i picked my segment and i wa it is apple bloom breaking applejack out of prison .
and they are running away from the guard .
and i am they are going to be running through canterlot .
and i wa convinced they were running through a canterlot street .
and i went what ?
i should probably message mag .
are they running through canterlot or somewhere else ?
and mag wa no they are in a dungeon a brick dungeon .
he made the biggest deal in the discord server about his hatred for brick from part one .
to have you pick the only image in part four with brick the only one .
the only one .
it wa it wa i am going to i thought they were running through canterlot and then mag wa no they are in a dungeon .
they are in a brick dungeon .
and i went let let do this .
and yeah i i drew about one hundred more brick and four full body pose .
on top of that .
and yeah i never ever want to look at another fucking brick again .
such a good story though .
it is one of my favorite .
i remember the watch party and everyone being about the brick .
a mentioned with cloud i believe i am not sure if cloud and i were together the first time we talked about it .
i think i remember mag and i talking about it when i wa over one time .
and i before i think it wa even before you guy were writing it yet .
you were we have this idea and you guy you guy laid it out for me .
the end plot twist and everything .
and i wa this sound interesting .
i did know do not think it affected my art that much .
the thing that affected my art the most wa i wa is there an official design for applejack ?
and i remember lost specifically saying no we want there to be a discrepancy because of the plot twist because it is in everyones it is everyones different depiction in their mind .
that wa one of my favorite thing about with reading the comment with each of the episode because everyone wa why doe he look different here ?
what the hell going on ?
and then they would all speculate .
and a lot of people got it .
a lot of people were yeah they are they are on the shit .
we know what the fuck .
but that wa the lovely thing about the artwork .
the thing that everybody used to point out especially with other audio drama wa the artwork are all different .
i remember i would see fuckloads of comment that .
and i looked at mag and i remember when we were trying to figure out those idea i wa no i want to fucking utilize it and twist it on it head because now people are thinking is that a ten ?
i am exploiting it at that point i guess on some level .
and looking at marcys piece the one in the kitchen with pinkie pie ajs eye are almost completely blackened .
and yet in the very next scene it talk about ajs eye being red and glowing .
and i did not give direction to marcy to blacken the eye there .
but that wa a nice little thing of why are her eye different visually ?
i that that affected my art the most wa the no there not an official design for applejack go hog wild with it .
even in my applejack in different segment if she wa in another segment that i did she purposely looked different because i wa if thats the case then i am going to mess around with it in each of my different art piece .
because i remember lost looking at me and going no have fun with it .
i loved the group chat .
i remember i swear there wasnt a single day that we did not talk in it whether itd be about a project about the project about something else .
i feel we were all we all fit in the same pod if that make sense .
we were all talking and happy about it .
any voice channel that we had wa super nice .
everyone wa super nice .
and then i remember after the project wa over i think i think it wa calypso .
i can not remember who messaged and said are we deleting this server ?
or can we please keep this server ?
because we all we all loved it much .
i know that that made my heart melt too .
i loved working on this project .
i always love mag art document not even going to lie .
they are easy to navigate .
thank you .
they it explains it .
but there still a point where you have that artistic freedom .
and i love i love it when creator give artist a little bit of freedom .
funnily enough i did used to watch all these the grimdarks and thing that growing up .
but i fell out of it .
it wasnt until i met cloud that i got back into it .
i had not seen the first one until i met cloud .
working on it wa i wasnt huge geeking out about it because i did not i did not know what it wa until a year or two prior .
i think it wa fun .
this statement is by bella pink savage .
i had a great time drawing for this production .
when magpie asked me if i wanted to partake i wa immediately on board .
but only if i could have a scene with no gore in it .
a i am used to drawing pony being cute and doing wholesome stuff .
and i usually get freaked out by the sight of too much blood or viscera .
naturally i ended up testing my limit lol .
i do not know why but i decided to draw a little outside of my comfort zone .
a little blood on rarity forehead did not sound too bad .
but the longer i worked on the rarity and twilight picture the more detail i wanted to add .
i am proud how they came out .
i am happy i stepped out of my comfort zone .
it wa a great learning experience .
i can not thank you enough mag for the opportunity .
i am looking forward to drawing more fucked up pony in the future .
yeah i wa in episode one three and four .
in episode one i got to have the real fun part of ending the episode where starlight dy .
and we twilight get bonked out by a known figure which we learn later .
and then in episode three i had two different part .
i had the scene where the syringe is thrown through the window and rarity is reacting to it during the dark and stormy night .
and then i also had the scene later on where her and applejack are fighting for the scissors to try and outbrew each other and stuff that .
and then in the final episode i had the scene where start to have a resolution and apple bloom is called outside by the royal guard and shes explaining to them whats going on .
all of my artwork is digital from the beginning to the end .
i do all of my artwork on photoshop .
thats what ive always used my bread and butter .
and for my specific tablet i have used the same wacom intuos that ive had since i started drawing ten year ago .
and shes on her last leg but shes the old reliable .
i can not trade her out .
thats a mood .
i think for my favorite piece it is a toss up between my piece i did for the first episode where twilight find starlight and shes bleeding out on the floor .
and the image i did where applejack and barrity are fighting for the scissors in both for different reason .
one of the thing i about halloween project in general is not the tangent but my style is generally a little bit more on the clean side .
and i enjoy these sort of project because it let me experiment and expand on my style in way that i usually do not get the opportunity to .
and thats way i experimented i guess with both piece .
in the first one experimented with some different shading method where starlight is bleeding and twilight is holding her a shes taking her final breath and stuff that .
and composition wise i think it is also one of my favorite with the lighting and the shadow .
and then for the second image with applejack and barrity where they are fighting and applejack is overpowering her .
i experimented with that one .
it wa in a rush and i guess it worked in my favor because i used a lot le of a clean lining style for that image .
and i think it added to the overall ruggedness and the mood and the atmosphere that is already being conveyed through the voice acting and stuff that .
and then i guess the only not trouble thing that infuriated me wa in the last image i did for episode four i the wheelchair .
and i loved that .
yeah it is not angle and perspective that you typically see .
i think for that one of the i always try to make my image a little bit more cinematic and a little bit more interesting .
i always to try and play with rule of third and perspective .
and whats important to the audience versus what do i know a the artist what do i want you to focus on versus what do you think you are supposed to focus on ?
and i always try to i guess i do not say make them boring but one of the thing ive been trying to experiment with my art the last few year is different angle different perspective .
and i think that it look cool but it also ha helped me grow a an artist a . i did not know about any of the plot twist .
i am going to be honest going into this project i knew i wanted to help but a lot of the time for a lot of project i am in i also want to experience it a a viewer a much a possible .
i try to gather a much information a i need to holistically complete whatever my portion of the project is in a way thats effective and conveys the information it need to .
but also i do not to be spoiled and i to view the content i am creating and all the content that other people are creating when it is all put together .
and i am going to be honest most of the time whoever i am working with i say give me something and then i focus on that .
i did not know about i did not know about any of the plot twist .
i am thoroughly impressed with that .
it is a not common but if ive a few artist have said that they want to enjoy the ride .
and they i wa going to say your art doc are good at facilitating that because they realistically only have to look at their segment and there enough information there that they could technically get away with not getting spoiled .
and i am thoroughly impressed with that .
because i with the attention to detail that you put into your art i would have not known that .
or doe it not matter what doe matter ?
that way it also doesnt break your atmosphere a a viewer .
i think a far a the community aspect it went smoothly .
it wa nice to be able to have access to all the document in one place .
that wa organized and community wise with having access to everybody else in the project in a respectful way .
if you have a question you can always ask it and there always going to be an answer which i always think is helpful especially for i know there some newer people on this project and i know that there are a lot of question asked .
and i think creating a solid community which you guy have you guy usually do is the foundation for how smoothly thing go .
but i think thats a big aspect of it is you guy make thing easy and you create a space where people know they can ask question of other people and of yourselves and that facilitates how smoothly thing run .
my gosh doe that mean weve run good project mag ?
i got apparently apparently apparently .
it is project these where i get to step out of my comfort zone and in a good way .
i think a an artist you always need to be stepping outside of what you are comfortable in in order to get better .
i think thats with a lot of thing but especially with art .
and i do not think there any harm in trying new medium or anything that .
i think thats how thats how style change and grow but thats how we become who we are a artist .
and it is always i can say for example there are thing from this project that i did not used to do before .
and then i experimented with it and then now it is part of my actual style in a cleaner method .
from a fan perspective though it is always it is nice to see thing a not reimagined but continued wa a big fan of the original apple sleep .
and i think the other thing wa that there wa a lot of people in this project who ive known for a while and who ive worked with for a while .
and whenever everything come together it is cool to see how everybody ha changed and improved and grown .
one hundred percent .
can i eat my mcdonalds now ?
yes yes you fucking can .
i believe that in .
it is it is one of the more valid extra thought it is it is the thought that is going through my head now a my food is staring at me .
the following statement is from corva bug .
my name is corva bug formerly known a fokie yacht or kninety studio .
and i adore this project and had much fun being a part of such a spooky tale .
i love how mind bending the end reveal wa finding out the mare behind all of the chaos wa very interesting to me .
the little clue to thing not being what they seemed were another thing i adored .
i love how we made aj seem some unstoppable force .
you never know what truly happened until the end .
i wish we had pushed the mind breaking and twisting a bit more showing glimpse of the others point of view or flickering into reality and hallucination .
however i can not complain with the end product .
this project made me jump out of my comfort zone and push my art much more .
i am blessed to have worked on such a production .
everybody did such an incredible job and all of them are the most talented and inspiring people i have ever met .
i hope they are all proud of what they have accomplished .
all the work they have poured into this is incredible .
this project changed how i looked at my art and pushed my skill .
i can look at what i had done in this project and how much it ha affected my art now .
i am incredibly blessed to have been a part of this with many amazing people .
next time ill for sure push my creepiness more or maybe keep thing cutesy and fun .
sincerely raven .
i did the first look that we get of applejack in part one .
i did the scene of rarity when shes got her back on the floor and shes bloodied up with the scissors next to her .
and then and that wa in part three .
i knew i did the part where twilight wandering around the orchard being scared of tree .
but i also did the part where ditsy is bringing all of the package back to apple bloom at the castle .
i use in term of hardware i use a desktop computer and a wacom .
i think it is nintendos pro .
it is very old and very janky .
in term of program i use clip studio paint and i do it all in clip studio paint .
yay a clip friend .
thats what i used .
my wing clipped .
my favorite is the first shot of applejack because i experimented a lot with ive always loved doing rendered background that do not rely on line work and character that have a little bit of line work in them .
getting to experiment with that wa great .
and i how it came out overall .
that wa the first time i got a feel for how i do my style now .
that wa neat .
you are an integral part of my current artistic style .
i love hearing shit that to be honest .
yeah yeah i think working with the time constraint and you guy do set reasonable time limit for the art .
that definitely help push me to cut corner in a way where i am still happy with the final product .
that wa definitely the case with that picture .
i wa a little i wouldnt say frustrated but i pushed myself a little too hard with part four where i wa already going through some rl stuff .
and i desperately wanted to multiple picture of that scene with twilight and the old orchard because i thought it would look cool to have different interlacing picture of her disoriented and wandering around with all these creepy looking tree .
and there some some background element .
i think if you squint i i am not sure how visible they are in the final product but where you can see pony on the tree hanging or or with a shovel in them they were in part one .
my god i found some .
hold on .
i know now now i am going to go back and look at the fucking art .
hold on .
i did not know that .
fuck those piece with twilight losing her fucking shit .
they were they were some of my favorite because it wa whats obvious we do not twilight in this .
but the the emotional anguish you are good with facial expression and the way it is conveyed in the insanity and stuff that .
but the picture with ditsy on the step that it wasnt firmly established in the little blurb the guide blurb that it wa ditsy .
i made it because shes the the the tm ponyville male pony .
fuck it .
there one pure wholesome untouched character in the entirety of apple sleep .
she is precious that it take you out of the story because you want to .
you are we needed a pallet cleanser .
a brief to make the horror push that much harder .
one cute little ditsy face. . my god .
yeah but all those fucking present though that wa a struggle .
presence were my brick .
i wound up copy pasting and morphing and color shifting them .
i did not have to deal with it .
and the angle wa hard .
it is it is very much but i think it worked out .
no it look you would never be able to tell .
thank you .
a little bit .
i can not remember if mac would come to me to talk to them or if we would get talking and then itd be hey i were talking what did you think of this scene or how is this reading far ?
i remember we had a conversation about something is obviously going on .
there is a reveal here .
what do you think the reveal is ?
i did not i did not guess that it would be apple bloom who the culprit wa .
i wasnt sure if applejack wa involved or not .
but i definitely knew that there were part where she either wasnt there or everyone wa super messed up or something .
i think that did play a little bit into how i did my scene but not too much because you are trying to keep it a surprise .
i would read ahead in the dock a to everyone el scene because mac is very good about having blurb that are very detailed .
and i think thats a positive because it mean that i do not have to think too hard about what detail am i missing ?
i do not have to scrub through the entire talk .
i never do a thing and make sure that it is cohesive .
but i did do that that i wouldnt accidentally contradict something that wa happening later on or if i needed to i could foreshadow something a . i did join the group chat .
i am very much the artist working on these project where you give me the deadline i pick my part i disappear from the face of the planet .
and then a couple day before the deadline here here your art .
and then i run away .
but i did pop into the group chat every now and then .
and it wa it wa very fun seeing everybody uplift each others art and people were struggling with their whip sometimes and the feedback that everyone wa giving and how cool everyone wa being .
it wa it wa a definite good in the project to have that group chat .
and the energy wa great .
project these are a big part of why i am still in the fandom because i love seeing many different people with many varied talent come together and make something great .
and i think you guy were on the money when you said that the disjointed art style work especially for horror because it keep you guessing and you do not know what the next scene is going to look .
and that lack of consistency is an underlaying not anxiety but extra little spice little salt on the experience .
i especially love how the editing guy were talking earlier about how certain image can linger longer because they convey all you needed to .
you also do a lot with the editing that help convey action scene even on a static image .
and i think it wa cool to see that play out that .
i bring it is not even that my brain i could give you a twenty minute spiel a to why a certain thing wa the end of everything for me mentally .
but thats why it is it own podcast .
yeah thats why .
yeah thats why the editing and the production is it is on podcast because it is going to be an hour of me pitching .
and because of that i when it come to the artwork i try to always honor it .
and if there a way to amplify it within the editing in how you said with the movement or glitch or weird thing to amp up and bring up the best part of that artwork .
thats what i try to do because the project wouldnt be nearly a successful .
if not for your guy art it wouldnt .
i can tell you that now .
yeah thats it .
it would not be where it is if not for the art .
and thats why the art credit are the biggest aneurysm that i freaking have because and man can tell you i fucking will sit here for hour and meticulously go over the art credit because i am did i spell this person name ?
is it on the is there art on the screen long enough mag ?
do i need to extend it ?
it doesnt help that i have a problem spelling thing correctly .
my god do not even give me a start .
two writer everyone .
two writer .
but yeah no i think thats thats a good thing too .
is mag wa talking about how great it is to see her writing come alive in the art .
the same thing is for the editing .
it is a positive feedback loop of mag writes the scene and then my god look at this art .
it is the movie i saw in my head and then i give you the art and it is my god look at what you did with the art .
thats amazing .
you give me life to this thing ive been staring at for three day .
yeah this is also part of why i watch project these even when i am not involved is seeing that community effort and that love for what everyone is doing and appreciation for each other .
it is great .
there are two line i want to highlight .
it is it is not necessarily art related but because i wa listening to it the part where pinkie pie is listing all of the cupcake flavor in one of them is blue .
i live for that blue flavor lover representation .
pinkie pie is such a personal place too .
but yeah and then the other line wa when rarity and applejack are facing each other down and rarity is thinking about her dad and then thinking about the syringe and applejack asks lose something .
my god the heart punch though .
you guy you guy are great writer .
you are great at everything .
it is it is always wonderful working with you .
this statement is by dannys art den .
it allowed me to get out of a depressive slump .
i knew i would love working with magpie and lost .
they had been a pleasure to work with before from previous project angel of mercy and princess trixie sparkle .
getting to draw cute colorful character getting violently torn apart is very therapeutic after a day of working retail .
mag and lost have been absolute sweetheart .
i havent had director that were vocally appreciative of artwork i had never been praised much for my work than i have working for mag and lost .
they are hella sweet .
they care if we are sick mentally or physically .
they kept communication open and friendly .
the following statement is from the artist urban kool .
this is urban kool in text form because talking is scary .
magpie wanted my two cent on working a an artist on another apple sleep experiment .
here are my quick thought and feel .
the original apple sleep experiment wa one of the first mlp audio drama project i ever assisted with .
ive always loved listening to fanfics from the lost narrator and magpie pony while i draw .
it wa beyond exciting to contribute to them .
naturally when mag poked me about the sequel i wa super hyped to join in .
it felt all the work ive done for them wa coming full circle by revisiting the apple sleep universe .
i love seeing how it all came together and how hard everyone worked on the project .
from the voice acting to the editing and the art it feel a big love letter to everyones journey a creatives .
doing art for them ha genuinely helped me improve much and pushed me to come out of my shell .
it gave me the confidence i needed to pursue my dream career a a freelance illustrator and start my own project .
though i am probably always going to be a social anxious hermit .
i want to say that i love and appreciate the fuck out of lost mag for everything .
thank you for picking me to be an artist all that time ago and keeping me around to draw edgy horse for you guy .
i wa in part two three and four .
i wa only at nine and one because i wa not made privy to this magpie .
listen you were real busy helping with other thing .
yeah i am almost positive .
the reason why we did not pull you for the first one is because you were working on the merch for debt .
wa it debt to society ?
the merch ?
you were out busy .
you were doing everything else .
i will bend over backwards for your guy story. . mostly digital with the what ?
they use paint tool side with the wake up tablet .
thats my go to .
which one did not i ?
i think my my two favorite one are the fluttershy fighting off her own animal and rarity getting ready to stab a bitch .
that fluttershy .
that fluttershy image bloody .
that fluttershy image with the fucking animal and her fucking raging .
my personal favorite of yours this is a side side thing is .
it is the apple bloom with the evil pyramid finger apple bloom .
in part four it is great .
yeah she had to have her fill and reveal moment .
she had to be yes .
ive seen a lot of artwork mimicking that or fan art mimicking that pose where shes got her hand her hoof together and diabolicalness .
i can not word it is phenomenal .
but a picture being bane and i will kill you twilight .
i want to go on record .
i knew i knew apple bloom wa alive .
i knew it .
never said that to that mental life .
and also yes it affected some of the art because i knew fluttershy wa losing her shit .
i am let make this a abstract a possible .
and then same with when rarity facing off with applejack .
mostly when applejack first breaking in try to have little abstractness and of course rainbow dash panic attack here and little tannock pick .
yeah you drew that one too .
where rainbow losing her shit .
everyone here had contributed a lot which is why we were happy to have you here .
and there are a lot of artist that did one or two piece .
but you guy and a couple others specifically gave it your all .
and i can not thank you enough .
he he you deserve it .
thank you for letting u be a part of it .
it is fun .
again from the fan perspective getting to see all the art coming through and it could also help feel inspiration for my own piece be this look cool .
i want to try get that level to stuff .
it never good a everyone el but it all look cool to see .
it is funny how a server based around murder horse and stuff is what some of the most wholesome people .
art perspective i loved it .
i i do always feel spoiled with magpie art doc because i can i know i can scroll to my segment and everything i need there .
i am yeah i do not have to read back on other doc .
not that anyone ha to but it is nice to be spoiled to be bring me the reference .
it is very nice .
it let me turn off my brain and go creative mode .
and of course a a fan absolutely love these story .
it is what fuel the creativity of art .
i i always think art fuel more art .
whether thats the story writing or the voice acting or of course the 2d artwork it is always amazing to see .
yeah thats thats the one cool thing .
i think weve weve talked about it a few time already but the it is it is artwork building upon more artwork building upon art more artwork and there everybody ha different genre that we are creating them in but they are all blending together very very .
and i would say beautifully too because of the production aspect and stuff that .
brangle burr .
thats how we are in there .
thats how we are in there .
the statement is from safina .
hello my name is safina .
getting to be an artist on another apple sleep experiment wa a massive honor to me .
an apple sleep experiment wa one of the first mlp grimdarks i ever watched after tale of the lost narrator .
after working on many other project for lost in mag along with other creator having the opportunity presented to me to work on another apple sleep experiment wa amazing .
i begged to be included during a call while watching the premiere of an episode of princess trixie sparkle two when they first announced aase wa in the work .
once i wa accepted into the project i got the chance to read over the part of the script before the video were posted .
and i wa over the moon with the story that wa being told .
mag is a fantastic author and i wa excited to get to be a part of this and work with both lost in mag .
having worked on many grimdarks at this point i always loved the challenge of getting an assignment of making something creative within the bound of a story making an art piece that help to tell the story itself .
mag and lost have been kind in that regard .
not once when something needed changing did i ever feel i wa being spoken down to or not being respected for my work .
apology and thanks were always plentiful when a correction need to be made .
another aspect that ha fascinated me is the editing .
how our work a artist that already say much are brought to life in the video themselves .
i am always excited to see the final product of the work everyone put in .
overall aase is one of the project that i had the most fun working on .
up there with friendship is tragic by scribbler and princess trixie sparkle two by magpypony .
ive made many friend and working with other artist always help me to improve my skill by seeing what i love in their art which is a lot because all of these people are crazy talented and trying to incorporate it into my own style .
thank you lost and mag for this amazing opportunity .
and i look forward to working with you both on pt immortal fliction and any project that come after .
it is important that i do this but i will get emotional .
do not make fun of me .
i want to say this to all of you and to all of the artist who are not here with u in this moment that i am honored .
i am honored that you would give me u these hour and sometimes day of your time .
i talked about this a little bit in the first podcast but this story i wrote largely on my own .
i did not have editor this time around .
it wa me and there wa a sense of fear going into the art aspect that people werent going to be jibing with it .
i poured a lot of myself into this both knowingly and annoyingly .
to have such amazingly talented people be willing and almost happy not almost but happy to help bring a vision from my brain to life is overwhelming which is why i have such a hard time sometimes asking for help because it is i do not always feel worthy .
i do not always feel worthy of all of your talent and all of your friendship .
that server wa a friendship for me .
it wa it wa a fun place to go where i felt i felt i belonged .
it is not a secret to lost but i have often said to her i do not consider myself an artist .
it make it all the more unmemorable and positive .
we even found out detail in image from this podcast .
i did not realize for there everything is a new experience every time .
and i know there were ups and down but you guy are the best .
you were some of my best friend .
and some of the best people i know .
and i want to thank you .
and i want to thank the viewer too because if not for you and if not for your love for the original apple sleep none of this would have even been a thing .
i wouldnt have been able to bear my soul creatively in the medium that you wouldnt expect from me .
but yeah i i am honored every single day to be magpypony and to know all of you .
and thats all i want to say .
all i am going to have to give you snuggle when we are done .
you were the cat .
and on that note i think that is it .
thank you all for listening .
i want to thank all the artist how meg wa saying earlier .
the biggest reason why these production are even able to be a good a they are is because of you guy .
and i i yeah i am forever grateful for this .
it blow my mind that much talent is is willing to help u make these vision come to life .
and it is it it blow my mind every day .
but yes let let go down the list for a while .
is everybody cry ?
did i not have everybody say goodbye ?
it is going to be bye .
it is this mean the world to me .
welcome to the michael singer podcast presented by sound true in partnership with shanti publication .
for more information about michael singer work access to all prior episode and information about upcoming release we invite you to join u at www.mickelsingerpodcast.com .
people think that making themselves feel big seem big make something bigger themselves is a way to find being peace happiness in life .
a truly great being and well get the gap in between know that being nobody is the most beautiful thing in the whole universe .
it is total freedom .
now it depends on how you mean and how you get to being nobody because nobody want to be nobody .
they get mad at me when i talk this .
my psychiatrist and therapist teach me to think highly of myself and to be positive etc .
and then you tell me to be nobody .
it is subtle and we talk about it .
why not ?
if you want to be somebody and you practice being nobody it is tremendously unhealthy because you are suppressing the part of you that want to be somebody .
if you want to impress people and you try not to you try to practice humility thats false humility that you want to impress people .
especially if you think by looking humble you are impressing people .
you hear me ?
thats not whats meant by becoming nobody .
whats meant by becoming nobody is that there is nothing inside of you that want to be anybody .
you are not somebody who want to say to me it is very beautiful to watch her grow but she want to say to me when she wa in college she decided she wanted to be average because it is safer .
she wanted to prove herself .
she doesnt always feel that shes being challenged .
this particular person wa very brilliant very smart very competent human being but she wa busy being average .
because it wa safer .
it is a safe place to be .
you are not trying to impress people because then you might not impress them .
then you feel bad .
if you are happy being average then nobody judge you .
these are the trick of ego that we are going to talk about them because they interfere with your spiritual growth .
wanting to be nobody is not the same a being nobody .
wanting to be somebody but practicing humility is not the same a becoming the nobody i am talking about .
if you get to the point where youve seen enough experienced enough they call it being done you are done .
you are not tired of it .
you havent had enough of it .
no thats not being done .
thats i want more but i know i can not have it go away .
i want to be alone .
thats not being alone .
thats being afraid of being with people .
thats not being comfortable interacting .
there a deep state in which youve seen enough .
you do not read a book .
life is your book .
youve seen enough and forever for the rest of your resistance .
there no reason to impress anybody .
that what you get from impressing somebody is a cost because the next time you meet them you have to impress them again .
you have to maintain that impression .
do you understand that ?
a wise being ha gotten past all that .
they do not have to try to .
they saw enough .
if you eat food that make you sick because it taste good eventually you stop eating it .
it is not worth it .
it is not worth the taste .
at some point you are going to find out that impressing people is not anything .
it is absolutely nothing .
what it doe is give you a cost .
you have something to pay back .
you go through you do a concert everybody clap .
you are nervous to do the next one because they might not clap and youve already built through ego based on the fact that i am somebody people clap about .
that go for everything .
that go for deciding this is what i want the future to look .
these are my dream .
these are my hope .
these are my view .
these are my concept .
i talked to you this way because you are mature enough to understand it doesnt mean you do not do thing .
it is not about doing or not doing .
youve heard that .
it is about being .
it is about being done that you can stand in the presence of any of this happening and there nothing inside that want anything from it .
not that you are not supposed to .
not that you should suppress .
not that you should renounce .
when you were young you played with toy .
i usually use barbie a an example .
i am glad she came back .
all who barbie is now. . but girl maybe some boy also played with barbie. . and you liked barbie .
the whole thing wa barbie .
whered barbie go ?
and the addict somewhere .
thats not nice .
she wa your best friend .
what happened ?
you outgrew her .
you did not renounce her .
you outgrow thing .
you see through them .
you mature past them .
you realize that that wa through giving you .
they do not do anymore .
you do not need them anymore .
thats a very beautiful state .
it is called being done .
not wanting to be done .
not trying to be done .
not trying to act somebody who done or not even understanding that done is a very high state .
it is a very very good state .
what if i am done with relationship ?
you got burned you do not have nothing to do anymore ?
no thats not done .
they say that i am done with that .
thats not the done i am talking about .
thats the human done not the spiritual done .
when are you done with relationship ?
when you are done with relationship you are done with barbie .
are relationship wrong ?
is your toy wrong ?
when you grow up ?
there nothing wrong or .
youve finished that part of your being .
it did what it needed to do and now it is not there anymore .
thats what done mean .
not the done we use the word for .
i am done with school .
i am done with this job .
i am done with this bos .
i am done with the politics .
i think thats not done in any way shape or form .
theyve sat there and said i am not done with it that i can not handle it .
is there a difference ?
it is important to me and it burn me and i can not handle it .
i am done with it .
do not use that word done dandron spiritual or yogi a that buddhist because thats not done .
done is done is siddhartha .
i have gone through this process of life .
all of it ha put me through my change .
i do not mind if other people feel it .
but is not that hollow and dark ?
no it is beautiful .
it is beautiful to wake up in the morning and realize you are fine and to look and not can not you do not even think about whats going to happen today .
and you do not even think about what happened yesterday .
you did not expect anything from it .
you did not want anything from it .
you were here now and walked through the moment a it happened .
and when it is done happening it is done .
thats what done mean .
be here now is the epitome of done .
but be here now is not something you do .
when that book first came out in the late sixty early seventy you tried to be here now .
if you are trying to be here now you are not .
trying to be here now is pay attention .
focus on it .
that mean you are not here now but you are trying to be here now .
it is a wonderful thing to do .
eventually you are done with that .
what doe it mean ?
there no other place for you to be .
there nothing in your mind thats saying id rather be doing this or i should be doing that .
or why did not i do this ?
and then you look back on the day and sit there and say what did i get done ?
what should i get done ?
meaning i am not here now .
i am there then .
i am not here now .
when you are done with it how can you be done with it ?
how can you be done with it ?
first if you care what other people think of you you will never be done .
because you are busy trying to please them or avoid them or justify or defend .
you are busy doing something because you are not .
and the relationship you have with others is either making you feel better or making you feel worse .
and you are not done with that .
you are not done with your relationship .
i am not talking about close intimate relationship or any relationship .
work play school this that driving everything .
i wa the example of the driving .
someone driving slow in front of you .
can you handle that ?
are you done with getting upset by the way people drive ?
are you done with the weather ?
are you done getting upset because it is hot or humid ?
or because it is going to storm ? ?
have you gone through enough hurricane to where it doesnt mean you do not prepare .
it doesnt mean you do not deal with whats here now .
but you are not worried anxious scared .
you are in harmony with whatever weather unfolds .
because you can be with it .
youve been with it enough .
youve experienced enough .
a done mean you are not done with a thing .
you are done with your worry about the thing .
you are done with your hope and dream and concept and view and fear and desire about a thing .
then you are done with it .
see the difference ?
but if you do not if you have all that stuff going on in there you are not done .
you can try to act you are done but you are not done .
they are beautiful .
done mean you do not even have to talk about it .
you do not talk about white line .
you are done with them .
youve seen yellow one youve seen white one youve seen dotted one youve seen solid one .
you are done with them .
most day your weather is fine .
you do not even think about it .
the weather is what it is .
it doesnt mean you are not interacting with it .
the weather say it is going to rain .
it is not that you are not interacting with life .
you are not interacting with life with a motive .
this is very deep .
motivelessness is being done .
thats not a word .
i think there such a word in the dictionary .
there is such a thing in the spiritual dictionary a a very deep state .
you have entered into this moment without a motive .
not for a second .
i am not trying to make it it will make me better later or make up for what happened before or make amends .
it is going to chill .
it is a very high state .
i have no motive for why i am interacting with this moment .
are you interacting with it ?
i would have to have a motive to not .
no by the way god i hope youll listen to me .
i am not interacting with it .
it is interacting with me .
i am interacting with the weather .
the weather is interacting with me .
it is in charge .
i happen to be here in this way .
i am experiencing what is going on .
do you have a motive for that experience ?
of course not .
i am here interacting with the weather .
i am here walking in the rain .
i am here sweating .
i am here shivering a i am cold .
doe that mean that if there a blanket i do not take it ?
i am tough .
i do not need blanket for the cold .
thats a motive .
you are trying to show how tough you are .
thats a motive .
god ive never talked to the three guy before .
the word motivelessness is a phenomenally deep word from a spiritual point of view .
are you getting it ?
you have walked into the moment except you did not walk into the moment .
the moment came to you .
you do not walk into any moment .
this is what i do not know why i get this .
i never see your face a you get it .
you think you are the doer .
am i supposed to do anything ?
am i supposed to look for a job and supposed to get married ?
have child do this ?
come on .
i do not understand what you are teaching .
let take more of a moment than you usually do and talk about what you are doing .
how much of what happens is you are doing .
are you making your heart beat ?
how much time do you spend on the day making your heart beat ?
how about making your lung go in and out you can breathe ?
how about there twenty five trillion cell that make up your body that talk to each other interact with each other secrete thing do a thing .
you doing that ?
you must be busy .
and do this .
you think my god how do you keep up with all this ?
you are not doing that are you ?
doe it affect your life ?
yeah it certainly doe .
are you holding the planet together that when you stand on it fall through ?
bonding all the atom doing everything .
you have a wife .
were you there for her childhood ?
were you there for all the formative year ?
but what interaction do you have with your wife ?
shes twenty seven year old .
youve been together for two year .
what interaction do you have with her for the twenty five year that made her not to mention her parent her birth ?
what interaction did you have with that person ?
we have no interaction with your body no interaction with your breath no interaction with your heartbeat no interaction making the earth stay together you can stand here .
how much of whats happening are you doing ?
how about point .
it reminds me a billion .
thats how much you are doing and you think you are the doer .
there teaching about doing and not doing .
they are not complicated .
happen not to be the doer .
doe that mean that you are not moving your arm ?
have you moving your arm ?
did you make the muscle that make your arm move ?
at some point you wake up and you realize it is all happening around you .
it is happening to you .
it is what is from the past inherited into your moment .
and then you take that and the other one i give you is here you are having a moment .
whatever it is every moment you are having a moment .
how big is that moment in relationship to how many moment that are happening at the same time ?
how many moment this size are happening all over latchewa ?
gainesville florida united state earth mar jupiter .
how many moment are you missing compared to the one moment you are having ?
you are missing .
my god there no number big enough is it ?
you are missing everything .
why do i have to tell you the ego is nothing ?
it is a lie .
it is a joke .
what if you are done with ego ?
doesnt mean ego is done with you .
you are done with the white line you still see them .
you pay attention to them ?
but if you are done with ego what if you are the state where anything it say it is ego .
it is nothing .
here your relationship with ego .
everybodys got one .
yours is not special .
everybodys got one .
it is hilarious .
it mean nothing .
you are not trying to get what it want or avoid what it doesnt want or prove yourself to people or make sure that what you want for the future happens .
there no blindness going on in there .
is ego still there ?
but you are done with it .
thats why the word done is important .
you are not fighting with it .
you are trying to change it .
you are not denying it .
you are not suppressing it .
you are not elevating it .
you are not proving it .
you are not defending it .
you understand that ?
youve been around the block enough time to see the thing for what it is worth .
whats worth ?
it is a pain in the butt .
all it doe is cause trouble .
it is busy wanting and needing and proving and defending it .
and you do what it tell you to do .
you constantly behave in accordance with this thing .
barbie wa a thing this ego is a thing .
and you can be done with it .
i am trying to teach you it is different than getting rid of it .
it is different than it is done talking to you .
who care what it say ? ?
somebody say something to you and it is insulting to you .
it may not be insulting to somebody else but it is insulting to you because the way your mother used to talk to you .
very personal .
insulting is a very personal thing. ?
it start talking about what it is going to do to defend itself and how to say my god it start doing that .
and have i got one of those ?
have i got one of those ?
it start doing that .
i call it vomiting. ?
the ego vomit into your mind and it go on doesnt it ?
and it want you to tell a person off .
it want you to make sure it never happens again .
people who are not done with your ego do not even know they are defending themselves .
they think it is perfectly reasonable logical .
how could you say that to me ?
somebody who done with their ego realizes the thing is hit .
well talk about it in a minute .
it is going to do it thing .
a snake doe a snake thing .
the cloud doe the rain thing .
the sun doe the heat thing .
the ego doe the ego thing .
but it is the ego thing .
it is the barbie thing .
it is the ego thing .
it is meaningless .
it is a thing in the universe that doe it thing .
what if you are done with it ?
then it doe it thing and you do not do it thing .
suppress it thing .
fight it thing .
you do not do it thing .
there it go again .
ben they are done that and you are able to sit there until it stop vomiting .
they will stop .
if you do not give it energy if you do not go with it if you do not put your heart and soul into it it is going to stop .
it stop .
maybe itll be tomorrow and then the half is this .
if you think somebody wa bothering me and said do not do that .
do not poke the dragon .
because i guarantee you if you do that it will remember it and it will start over again .
itll come back .
in other word you are not done .
you had to do something about it .
the beauty is when you are done you do not have to do anything about it .
it doe this little thing .
you go back to your business and then it fall off .
then it stop talking that .
and you realize that the le you have to do with it the more you are done with it the more it is done .
it is a big deal .
somebody insulted my ego .
how many other thing ?
you are only thinking about you ego .
it is something straight with ego .
it only think about itself .
how do i know that ?
thats what ego is .
is that which take everything and relates to it to itself ?
every thing that read the newspaper .
how you doing ?
ego got something to say about it .
go to another country youve never been before .
ego relate to they do not speak english .
i do not know about comfort. ?
the eye is always there .
it take the whole world and brings it back to the center of it universe which is the ego .
i told you once why it doe that .
and you can not make it not do that .
thats a form of suppression .
the consciousness you hello in there dropped into the body and got lost .
it doesnt know where it is .
and all these input are coming in .
all these sight and sound and all this stuff .
and there a body and all this .
how it talk that ?
when the soul drop into the body it get disoriented .
even in the womb it is relatively quiet. ?
they are spanking you. ?
and then all of a sudden there all this stuff going on .
it is all foreign to you .
sight and sound and this and that and touch and everything .
it is wow .
what doe the soul do ?
it try to protect itself .
it try to get orientation .
it try to orient itself .
it try to make sense out of thing .
thats what it try to do .
it cling to mommy .
and it cling to the crib .
and it cling to the blankie .
and it cling to the toilet .
it start holding on to external thing that it can feel more comfortable being in there .
you are going to look cool .
the ego the masquerading self .
the self drop in and build a mask out of mind out of the experience that it had .
i told you once if you are ever saying what i am talking about and do not do it do not you dare do it .
they should arrest you .
take the baby and every single night put in a different crib and have a different woman pick it up every single night and every single day .
you do not want to meet that kid when they grow up because it wasnt able to build a self concept .
it wasnt able to build that model that it hide behind .
this is my mommy .
this is my crib .
this is my house .
this is my doggy .
this is my blankie .
do you understand that ?
it is building a my .
it is building a my .
are the experience happening ? ?
and it cling .
it is called clinging .
the self hold onto that thing for dear life .
what happens if somethings different ?
it can not hold on to it .
do you understand that ?
mommy not there anymore .
shell go to therapy for forty year .
thats freud .
it wasnt able to build the mask .
wasnt able to build the self concept that let it feel comfortable in there .
relatively comfortable in there .
it doe that your entire life .
it is not when you were little you did that .
i extreme example because they wake you up .
you are married and you live somewhere .
you live in this house .
you come home every day from work .
this day you come home from work .
you are very very happy .
turn the corner and somethings wrong .
the house is not there .
no it wa never there .
the neighbor are there no lot .
there no place where it wa .
i know exactly what you are going to do .
you are going to go back out to the street you turned onto and make sure it is straight .
there 25th .
i am tired or something .
i turned the wrong thing .
you can see yeah it is 25th .
you go turn back there and the house is not there .
you go up and knock on a neighbor door where your house used to be a neighbor but now those other neighbor are neighbor to each other because there no house .
you knock on the door and your neighbor who your friend come out and say how can i help you ?
what are you doing here ?
ill tell you not too good because that what you were holding onto which is this is me .
this is mine .
this is whats real broke .
you do not know what to do with yourself .
whats going on ?
it is only get uncomfortable .
there no discussion when thing break that and change that .
even little thing not that big .
we have trouble do not we ?
if all of a sudden you are married to somebody or your friend or somebody or at work and they treat you a certain way the next day they come in and they are treated different .
thats hard .
it get weird in there .
thats ego .
thats ego clinging to what it call it norm .
it is the selfconcept .
this is where everybody belongs and everybodys related to ego .
china ha something to do with your ego .
because you read it in the paper because somebody told you something because you met a chinese person .
a your ego developed this concept about white people and black people and foreign people and you are .
you are because you have all this data .
everybody ha this .
this is your ego .
all of it is your ego .
do not ever say thats not your ego .
thats not a spiritual state .
the spiritual state you understand .
ive had experience in my life .
my daddy taught me this month .
this is all your opinion .
if you think your opinion are you want to argue with somebody .
why is it never argues ?
for what purpose ?
you are arguing with somebody ego .
you are arguing with somebody past .
you are arguing with somebody concept and view .
why would you bother ?
the problem is do yours that way ?
do you understand that youve been programmed ?
your ego ha been programmed by your past experience .
but everybody had different past experience .
and tomorrow you are going to have another experience .
you can change in a second .
ego is nothing .
it is nothing .
it is absurd that you would build this fake model to make yourself feel comfortable and the only thing that doesnt make you feel uncomfortable is now everybody ha to agree with you .
the moment somebody say they say you are wrong with your politics. ?
everybodys going to be different .
they all had different experience .
it is to be strong for the 60 . how can anybody be when everybodys wrong ?
it is ridiculous .
thats your ego .
you think it is you .
you think it is worth defending .
it is the bane of your existence .
what doe it mean to be done with that ?
that it is not there ?
it is going to be there .
psychology say yourself cause of your ego is a summary of learning experience .
no but you can watch .
you do not this certain religious people or nationality or something that .
that always meet somebody or anything about them .
and for some reason love happens .
you feel this love .
and you find out that there are that nationality or that religion which you always poo pooed .
and all of a sudden you do not mind it much do you ?
love change a lot of thing .
all of a sudden you feel way more comfortable and your whole attitude change .
and ego is a chameleon that will change in one dillient of a second to anything that make you feel more protected .
and it make you feel more comfortable .
that sucker change it .
now you are getting an understanding of this ego thing but we are lost in it we do not see it a a thing .
we see it a me and i am .
anytime you say i am boy you aint nowhere .
you think you are and do not talk to me that .
all that attitude every drop of it is ego .
and then people say i have no ego .
that is all ego .
when you are done with ego somehow it edge .
thats all i can tell you .
you are back far enough .
that do not work .
you have been through enough life experience and learned about the stuff going on inside of you and outside to where i am doing my hand .
there this little circle in there and the ego fit in that circle .
but there all this room outside the circle in which there is no ego .
and now youve seen it for what it is the collection of thought that you were lost in and that if it doesnt get what it want boy it wa held to pay .
and i guess what it wa .
now you are it is being a drug .
you are addicted to ego .
if i do not have it if it is not getting what it want i am freaking out .
i can not live with myself .
i can not live with anybody getting what it wants. . thats what drug do .
you are addicted to ego .
but when you get far enough back naturally by letting go i am telling you it a a collection of thought .
you do not think about it .
you see it and there all this space outside of it .
and eventually you are done with it .
you are done with it .
it could throw it little tantrum and you do not even pay attention .
it is funny .
it is not even a meaningful thing that all of a sudden it change what it is thinking about or this or that or somebody my love we are talking about your relationship with the rest of the people in the world .
your relationship with the rest of the people in the world is how do i relate to them ?
it is an i them situation ?
how do i feel about them ?
then them could be a single person .
how do i feel about that person ?
how do i how they treat me ?
how do i what they said ?
how do i what they are doing ?
how do i what they are wearing ?
every single thing come back to i doesnt it ?
it all come back to i. i once used an example .
somebody come in hey man you can not believe it .
it is neat all ?
what to mine say ?
i got one last year .
come on watch .
it relates everything back to you .
because ego is always defending itself it is always building itself it is maintaining itself but we are lost in it that we do not see that and we try to do what it say to do because it is much more comfortable .
eventually when you are mature enough in your spiritual growth you get done but they are done with ego is a big thing .
it is a very big thing .
it is everything i teach you all the time .
you can not make it not be ego .
do not try to .
do not try to make it not relate to itself a the i because thats what ego mean .
that which relates to itself a the i. it brings everything back to itself .
it doe that .
the question is can you handle the different state that ego get in the weather ?
it is inner weather .
i want you to see it is inner weather .
can you handle the wind ?
can you handle the rain ?
can you handle the heat the cold ?
can you handle weather ?
can you handle weather ?
if you can not handle the weather you can not handle the ego .
if you can not learn that the weather is what it is i do not human .
it make my hair fizzy .
my god it is hot today .
all if you can not handle the weather you are going to handle that thing inside the inner weather .
thats saying i do not what she said .
i do not what shes doing .
i do not what she look and i can not believe it .
it is judging judging judging comparing constantly the whole thing is not it ?
you have to be able to handle and it is not even tolerate .
it doesnt mean what you do about it .
it ha nothing to do with whether youve been nice to them or killed them .
it ha nothing to do with that .
the question is can you handle that there are mosquito or they freak you out ?
their buzz bother you .
you are afraid they got in the house .
they are in the car .
you can not be at peace in the presence of mosquito .
thats what handling mean .
i do not have to do anything about it .
i am at peace with it .
now deal with it .
maybe you need to get it out .
you need to kill it .
i do not care what you end up doing when you are done .
thats why you can not judge the behavior of somebody who done .
there great master that are done .
you do not want to hear because you can not handle .
they do not behave the way you think they should .
they do not behave that everythings put in box you to put them .
i do think a master is .
someone who boxed are defined it fit perfectly inside of them and never go outside of them .
ha mastered the box game ?
a master a true master is someone who done .
done with what ?
they are done with their ego .
they are done with concept view opinion preference hope dream right wrong judgment anything .
they are liberated .
the ego is a keystone of being done because it is very strong .
when it throw tantrum it is very difficult to deal with .
therefore you try to interact with people in a way that they you do not you ?
you are trying to be accepted in that night .
you are trying to create a world trying to create a world that work for you .
again it pull it back to me .
it is all about me .
do i my clothes ?
do i how people think about me ?
do i my relationship ?
do i this ?
i i i i i i constantly come back to the eye .
being done done with a very rare state is it is not that it is not being an ego .
it is that it doesnt even catch your attention the weather .
the weather come and go .
what are you doing ?
this thing come and go .
it doesnt make you change anything .
it doesnt do a single thing .
there are snake there are mosquito .
no id say to be fair ive talked about ego .
thats the thing in the universe .
now i am going to list all the other thing there are .
how many thing are there ?
eight hundred billion zillion thing .
they are what they are .
they are what they are .
they do what they do and they because they are not in your frame of reference they will affect you .
are you judging them all ?
are you judging how armadillo behave or kangaroo which youve never seen one ?
they are terrible .
they carry their kid .
what do they call u ?
the kid named jimmy ?
they carry joey in their little pocket .
get that thing inside a womb for god sake .
whats the matter with you ?
carry a kid in a pocket .
do you do that with everything ?
then why do you do it with anything ?
because it affect your ego .
you understand that ?
you did not build a concept about joey about the kangaroo or the possum or nor soupy old .
but you build the concept about what shes wearing .
because of you .
build the concept every single thing .
get a scale weigh a few pound more or le .
how you doing ?
nobody ha anything to say about that ?
ego can not handle anything .
because it built these self concept about itself and it sends everything ha to stay the same .
but then it get bored .
there no wind .
i am going to talk about it .
there no wind with ego .
if it get what it want it is afraid it is going to lose it .
and it get what it want .
ive always needed this .
it is scared to death of saying something wrong doing something wrong looking .
you get older you look in the mirror .
i do not look the same a i used to .
my god it doesnt fix anything .
and you eventually catch on .
this is how you get done by noticing this thing is something else .
it is not my whole life server nothing .
and it is still talking .
it is still demanding .
it is still complaining .
all or wrong .
it is still doing it ego stupid thing .
try my whole life to make it be .
and eventually you look at it and say what ?
i can handle the weather in here .
do your thing .
do whatever you want .
i aint doing it out here .
but in here you need to throw a tantrum throw a tantrum .
you want to get all excited about something ive been there done that seen that .
how long is this ?
stay excited .
how long have you got everything that you wanted and finally came ?
how long doe there nothing else before you want something else ?
when wa the last time you got what you wanted and you never wanted anything else ?
thats what it mean to be done .
you are not suppressing .
you are not renouncing .
when you are done with something whats the person renouncing it ?
it is not causing any trouble .
it can be here there or sideways around time .
and it is fine .
thats the state you get when you work with thing .
you work with being with thing .
because you are not with thing .
but work with being .
and what will happen is you practice being .
you do not realize i can handle the weather .
i can handle the heat .
i can handle what you said to me .
it probably wa because usually it is .
and then you got that crap going outside your mind .
make yourself miserable .
what if somebody say something and you notice your ego start to do this ?
you give a little kiss on the head .
it is .
and it is over .
there nothing to do about it .
are we getting a feeling for done mean ?
how about if you were done with everything ?
it doesnt mean you do not do anything .
it mean you are not forced to react to the fact that you are not done .
how about that ?
you have to do something about it do not you ?
if you do not the heat you better go go for a house move away from the south go somewhere .
you have to do something .
you are not done with it .
you are not done with the ego .
you have to do thing .
and most important thing that i am telling you and psychology will teach you this ?
is your acceptance .
ill ask you how do you feel about being accepted versus rejected ?
thats a big test .
ill make a psych test for you .
you will not want to take it .
if you are pretty strong about acceptance do not you ?
think about being liked about being accepted .
if you are pretty strong about being rejected about being disliked .
what if you find out that you heard i heard that mary said that fred heard saul say that paul wa thinking badly about you but you do not know mary .
you do not even know paul .
it still bother you .
do you understand that ?
god i wonder if somebody told them something that i did .
i want you to get a light on it and see how what a ridiculous thing you are sitting on a little planet spinning a little black empty space caring about somebody thought that somebody thought that somebody said how are you going to ever be ?
but you can not change the nature of ego because then you are busy still doing something .
it ha to be a with the reaction that ego had to what you said .
i can handle it .
ive learned to handle it .
ive learned there nothing to do about it .
itll be what it is .
if saul marries joe do not me i do not know whats going to happen .
defending yourself i am strong enough to handle .
i can handle whatever happened .
ive been through my life .
ive been thrown up and down and down .
my god all kind of stuff going on .
i guess i can handle it and ive been letting go of the garbage .
i can handle it .
now if you can handle it who care ?
whatevers going to happen but i am afraid to drive in a car .
what if we get in an accident ?
your pornorotic person can not enjoy driving in a car .
other people do it .
whats wrong with you ?
grabbing everything jumping everything .
and eventually you say what ?
who care ?
ill learn about doctor and hospital and about broken bone and boy this will be fun .
i am done not wanting or wanting or being afraid .
fearlessness doe not mean there no fear .
it mean you are not afraid of the fear .
a human can feel fear .
it is another type of weather .
it is another thing that can come up inside .
i am not afraid of experiencing it .
it go everything else .
do the difference ?
that word somebody say i should never say it by the way but i am done with fear .
they think that mean you are fearless or nothing will scare you .
no it mean i can handle fear .
i do not have to do anything about it .
a i always say through the show you love your wife a lot .
shes going to die .
why would you say that ?
what do you mean ?
yeah i know .
whats going to happen ?
whatever happens will you be sad ?
whatever happens i can handle sad .
i can handle death .
that mean you do not feel anything .
no i can handle what it feel when these situation take place .
done mean i do not have to do anything about it especially not now but it hasnt even happened .
what chance do you have in life if you can not handle what you think might happen ?
a great being if they can handle the unfolding of the day of their life why would they worry about the future ?
thats how you get done .
i teach you that .
handle this minute then this hour then this day .
and the day start to tie together and you realize i can handle them .
doe that mean everything went the way you wanted ?
of course not but i could handle how it went .
i did not bring today into tomorrow and i sure did not bring seventeen year ago into today .
i couldnt handle it back then .
thing happened .
i guess it is hurt .
i wasnt assured .
what happens now ?
it come back up .
why doe it come back up ?
because you do not have to hold it down .
because i am done with holding thing down there .
because i am done with me having trouble with thing that happened seventeen year ago that will never happen again .
your childhood will never happen again .
i do not know why in the world psychology ha to get it out of there and do stuff. ?
it doesnt matter because you can not handle it .
what happens is you learn i can handle today tomorrow .
now all of a sudden i can handle that the past is coming up .
whats happening ?
i am done holding on to thing .
i am done worrying .
i can handle whatever it is .
i am sitting back here in the witness consciousness .
it is all coming up .
it is all passing through and i aint stopping the thing with it .
i have no motive back to motivlessness .
my god if he doesnt me then maybe when i go to get a job hell tell somebody no thats motif .
hear me ?
i have no reason to manipulate what anybody think about me because i am not looking for anything .
but that doe not mean i do not interact with the world .
but a beautiful thing to interact with the world with someone who done .
it is beautiful .
there no noise .
there no commotion .
but that doesnt mean that somebody not working .
doesnt mean somebody not taking their whole .
when you are done now you have the and the room to take your entire heart and soul and mind and devote it to the moment thats in front of you because you have no reason to do anything else .
thats art .
the moment becomes an act of creativity of art .
your total being is present in it and there will be much inspiration .
there much coming down because you are not in the way .
look how much commotion the freaking ego make .
if you want to say how they make decision and if somebody teach somebody who done teach you will know when when you need to know because all the force of creation will come together and nobody in the way .
and you will be part of the whole and well unfold that way .
is it inspiration ?
you want to call it that ?
what it is is being done .
you are out of the way .
and then the moment unfold and there no interfering with them .
how doe the planet stay in orbit ?
who doing that ?
how do all your cell in we are back to that .
how do all cell in your body talk to each other ?
and on .
it is that way .
it is the nature of thing .
everything work except when you are in the way .
and you have motif .
all of human problem every drop of them is because of motif .
because everybodys trying his ego everybodys trying to get thing to be the way they want it to be they feel .
boy that will make some serious commotion since everybodys different .
these formula are easy .
the psychology is and every person is a sum of their learned experience .
they are psychies the sum of the learned experience and they are .
look at yourself what you what you do not .
it is all your past experience building up to your your views. . and everybodys different .
now throw them all into a planet together .
all eight.five billion of them all completely different because of all the sum of the learned experience how many experience have you had ?
and they were different .
nobody had the experience you did .
now throw them together and instead of having to be done have them be completely not done .
they are only if they are getting what they want .
they are only if they are avoiding what they do not want .
and everybodys different .
go on throw them together .
tell them how many war they are going to be .
tell them what commotion is going to be .
tell them how much disturbance there going to be all over the place .
you understand that ?
thats what it mean being done .
you understand that ?
you are not part of that .
you did not bring that into the show .
thats pretty special .
all of a sudden le than the peacemaker .
you are here and the ego for what it is but that other people do not .
what happens ?
in my definition of compassion i say it is different than webster .
to me compassion is you are done at least in that area .
and the suffering that it wa when you werent done .
and you look upon others and realize they are not done .
and you feel compassion .
you understand you do not have to suffer that but i know you do now .
what can i do to lift the suffering ?
it doesnt mean anything in particular .
it mean you understand .
it is deep and beautiful .
true spiritual state is gorgeous .
but i am telling you what it is about is being done .
it is not about doing this work or doing that but it doesnt mean you do not do the work .
if you are out there being an activist because you can not handle whats going on mausoleum is off good .
but you are bringing a much commotion into the world a you are taking out .
because there activist on the other side .
whatever you are pushing ?
if you are done thats how it is .
but that doesnt mean that you do not partake in activity .
but it is not because you are not .
it is because your compassion drive you work with you to work with thing .
talked about the deep state of being done .
but we also talked about a proplase .
it take a whole hour that .
because you think i am done with this .
i am done with her .
that is the opposite of being done mean i am done with this job .
thats ego .
thats not done .
and you get to the point where you understand how doe one get done ?
by going through the experience that life put you through .
every experience every single experience you have been through and you are going through and you will go through is to help you mature enough spiritually to realize what am i doing ?
and i do not want to go back to work .
i am trying to cover it .
i am talking to the bos .
my hand are over it that .
you are sitting on a planet in a little nowhere circling around one star at a three hundred billion in one galaxy i wish there were two trillion .
and you care about the ketchup on your pant .
there ego for you .
how would you to be free ?
how would you to be free ?
not free to do whatever i want .
free from that thing that want .
they are free to be there .
you have no idea how powerful a real being is .
everyone else ha got their concept and trying to fit within the box .
when they meet someone who they see is not doing that .
it is amazing to watch the reactions. . it cause to be that way change them .
they have to adjust .
theyve never seen such a thing. . he sitting there with ketchup on his pant in a job interview .
because he went to lunch and he dropped some ketchup on his pant .
but yet he very intelligent and present .
i wonder if i could do that .
id be embarrassed to say you presented to the world something that doesnt exist .
i do not know how to interact with that .
i close it up saying you can not make yourself be done .
you go through the experience you are going through and let go of what it is thats not done .
thats making a commotion out of this stuff .
can you handle the moment that happened to you ?
the more you can handle the moment that are happening to you the more you will not be afraid that theyll happen again .
i would be afraid of that which i handled .
are you listening to me ?
you do not even by handled passing through .
it made it through me .
then you are done with that .
that build .
thats eventually realized i can handle the weather .
i do not care if it is ninety seven .
i sweat a little bit .
can you be with the reality of life ?
and then you realize i can .
thats a wonderful awakening .
every party say i can handle this .
you can say that about everything .
you are free .
you are free to be free to love life free to give free to experience fully .
ill try it .
youve been listening to the michael singer podcast produced by sound true in partnership with shanti publication .
for more information on michael body of work and all back episode please join u at michaelsingerpodcast.com .
thanks much for listening .
sound true .
waking up the world .
welcome to st. art the show where we talk about all thing catholic our lady of guadalupe mary and apparition the life of saint art and everything thats happening in the current world that pertains to those subject .
today i have such a wonderful guest .
for real she is it is such an honor to have my guest today .
and i will let her speak most of the show about what she doe .
i met her i will only say how i met her .
i went with a friend we have a ministry that we studied .
we go and pray to clinic where child are aborted .
and we take our rosary and i had a rosary thinking that i wa in front of an abortion clinic and someone come from the back and yell something at me .
of course the first thing i thought is someone is coming to attack me or someone is going to say something thats not very nice .
and no she wa coming to say welcome what are you doing ?
you are praying the rosary .
thank you much for coming .
why are you praying the rosary ?
and we said this is an abortion clinic .
and she said no this is a center for pregnancy help .
we help woman that are pregnant and that are in an emergency situation are lost need guidance and we take them in and we help them out in such various form and way that i wa very surprised .
i went into the clinic they showed me around they did a thorough explanation of everything they do .
and without further ado i will introduce you to marta my guest .
thank you .
thank you much for having me here .
it is truly an honor to be amongst woman and people that are watching that respect and love life .
and we are all defender of life ?
and this is what we are doing at heartbeat of miami pregnancy health medical clinic .
we are here to equip woman empower them that they can make an informed decision and give them the two beautiful choice which is helping them have their baby or a plan of adoption .
we have all been adopted into god family .
adoption is a beautiful option .
but unless woman have true choice where is that to choose ?
when the only choice that most woman have with an unplanned pregnancy is to end the life of the baby to abort that child .
and that is what heartbeat of miami is about helping these woman to choose life for their preborn baby .
there something that you said everyone defends life .
it is true .
everyone defends their own life their loved one life .
when we say respect life or honor life it is not for a particular religion or faith .
no it is everyone .
everyone want to defend life .
but it is there some stigma in society that when a pregnancy is unplanned then somehow we have to finish it in some form .
and here you are to say no we do not .
there are other option .
and here we are in this show to speak about hey no you can have a child even if it is unplanned .
abortion is unthinkable .
unthinkable because woman were not created .
we were not created to kill our child .
and i understand that thing happen .
and there forgiveness because we have a forgiving god when we confess and we ask him to forgive u . he doe forgive .
but the bottom line is that there are many woman out there that do not know and have not yet done that .
and yet they do not have a way out .
they think they do not have a way out when there are place such a heartbeat of miami that are there to help them and to equip them and to empower them and to walk with them .
because the majority of woman that have abortion is because they think there is no other choice .
there no one to help. . they think that they have no support .
they think that abortion is the only option .
and what happens for those woman ?
how do they find help ?
what should they do ?
can you recommend the practical way of reaching out for help ?
do they google ?
what is it that they do ?
because i found you by chance .
how doe someone that ... i am glad because that mean that god is bringing woman thinking it is an abortion place .
and obviously when they come in they find life .
they find god .
they find woman that are there willing to walk with them .
and to them it is why is this free ?
and we tell them because people that care for you without even knowing you they love god much that that is why it is free .
they help u . they support this mission that we can save your child and save you from the pain of a forever pain .
and i can second that .
i can speak from my personal experience .
i wa saying not only how is this free and you are going to tell u more about that because we have a very general soul with u today .
and why is everyone nice ?
how can you be nice ?
you do not know me .
this is ... and that tell you that is a love of god .
that is truth with a capital letter .
that is the truth .
you feel that you are with people that are there trying to help you and not trying to sell anything .
they do not belong to ... they do not have an agenda .
thats how what i felt when i went in .
martha did not tell me that .
i did not read this in a book .
i am not theorizing .
thats how i felt .
i encourage everyone that know there ha a family member a friend encourage them to find these clinic because this show is nationwide and they see u in all of the united state .
and your clinic are in south florida correct ?
heartbeat of miami pregnancy health medical clinic we cover all of south florida .
but there are pregnancy center and clinic all over the united state that are there willing to help these mom that think that there is no other way out .
and a woman with an unplanned pregnancy will never need an abortion .
a woman with an unplanned pregnancy need that support that yes i am with you and to u we see it every day .
in eighteen year almost that ive had this organization i am the founder cofounder and president of this organization .
since we started from the very beginning we have seen how many woman have chosen life for their child and over sixty eightzero baby have been rescued from abortion because at heartbeat of miami .
and thats one organization .
and when we always say please if this is too much we are here for you we walk with them for an entire year .
when an entire year if they need u we are there for them .
and we always tell them whatever it is there a plan of adoption you can always come back you can we are here for you .
none of them have ever come to return the baby .
none of them however those that have aborted because there is a percentage over ninety two of chosen life but there is a percentage that ha aborted .
and rania they come back they come back with a broken heart .
and thats how we refer them that they can receive that healing of postaborted .
you provide that help too .
there much to unpack here because the it is the narrative in society is respect life and then prochoice and respect life .
there much more .
why do not we talk about prevention for example ?
why do not we talk about how woman suffer after having an abortion ?
physically some can not get pregnant again .
mentally emotionally .
many family are damaged .
boyfriend husband exactly .
grandparent there there much more to the to choose .
it is not a simple a we a society make it seem .
i have the to choose .
i will terminate my pregnancy .
and then something that id to throw out there and maybe see if you have any thought on it is we are living in a time of a lot of awareness for wellness and mental health .
last week wa mental health awareness day .
and this month we are in the month of respect life and honoring life in all it form .
we are not only speaking of the unborn child we are also speaking of older people and people who are ill ?
i always say from the womb to the tomb .
from the womb to the tomb .
we are no one to take anybodys life .
and we are within that month .
but in this wellness journey that many people many woman are on and many woman and men where doe the hurt the damage that abortion cause u in again mentally emotionally and physically where doe fit in where doe that fit in in this wellness journey ?
it is a if i am eating only organic .
i am diving into a very a very difficult topic .
but here i am doing all these thing the special diet the special nutrition buying organic food .
and but then i continue taking these for example these these chemical or these harsh procedure and surgery because it is that that can hurt me permanently .
but thats a taboo .
and thats not talked about .
it is not talked about .
it is not talked about in the church .
it is not talked about in woman group .
it is not talked about in youth group .
it is not talked about freely .
yet we freely say all other thing .
it is easy to say i used to be in drug but now i found god and i am no longer in drug .
but but how often do a woman stand up and say i know what you will suffer if you have an abortion ?
it is almost the woman with the issue of blood in the bible .
she had gone seen old doctor .
she had gone through much for twelve year .
she wa suffering from a blood issue .
we do not know what that blood issue could have been an abortion for all we know .
yet she touched the garment .
and immediately she wa healed .
woman that find themselves with the pain and believe me when i tell you no matter how many woman you say i celebrate my abortion we know that that can not be true .
you can not celebrate the death of that baby that at whatever period of time you carried in your womb and you will always have that blood of that baby in your body .
it is impossible to say but this is what the world tell them .
and they come become i celebrate my abortion .
it is not true .
those woman are hurting and we have to see them a such .
they are hurting .
they come from a place of hurt .
they come from a place of hurt .
and and they they suffer through an abortion and they will i already did it .
then they advise other woman thats nothing when inside they are the walking dead because it can not be possible that a woman can celebrate the death of their child .
and i know because ive seen them .
and when they come back those that have aborted what an honor to be able to point them to god again and to and to tell them there forgiveness for you let find a place you can confess that you can get that healing that you need .
and we see that .
we see how they are transformed completely by the grace of our lord the grace and mercy .
and mercy is not about pointing to the divine mercy .
it is about take care take care of yourself make the decision and education .
it is educate yourselves .
what go deeper go to heartbeatofmiami.org .
go to their website go to their instagram account .
and you will see real life testimony and situation that happen every day in those clinic and how happy people are .
is it hard ?
is it easy ?
is it hard ?
it is le hard with such caring people that provide much tangible help .
they provide you with diaper .
they refer you to doctor .
they help you in every step of the process .
and i get goosebump remembering the thing they refer you to doctor .
they even sometimes call them and that you their office that they expect you .
they walk with you every step of the way .
and this is real .
this is not fake .
this is real .
this is truth .
this is life .
this is love .
this is god love and action .
these are the eye of the lord .
these are the mouth of the lord the hand of the lord the foot of the lord .
this is the heart of god because thats the least of these .
that tiny baby and the shedding of innocent blood is horrifying. . we shouldnt it is almost a if we shouldnt even be having to do this .
we those woman they it would be ideal to have a village ?
a family support and to not have to think of this a a first choice .
again this is not about blaming anyone .
some people out of ignorance out of not knowing out of here .
out of fear .
out of fear .
but there are other option and there are people that help .
and i know that sometimes it seems that there no one to help u but we are here to say there are people that help u and please look it up .
harp it of miami .
harp it of miami and they can if you are watching from another state thats not florida .
call u and well speak for you .
we have a we have a a directory that all over the world .
there are people that are helping woman that they can have their baby .
and thats what we are about .
and when you said about education education start at home .
education is when the parent come and walk with these child and and tell them whats good or bad .
oftentimes i say it is that the abortion issue it is a religious issue .
and i am going to ask a question to those that are watching u today .
is it a religious issue or is it a moral issue ?
is it moral to kill another human being ?
if we wouldnt allow it in animal ?
we do not allow it in animal .
we do not allow it in a a human you can not kill another human being. . but they but then there the argument of the clump of cell .
is it not ?
. . and scientist know that that it is life .
of course science ha proven it is human .
but it is they can not it is we are we are i am being perhaps extreme or some people may not to hear it .
it is a if we are caught in this in this narrative that society imposes on u . and then we do not we are this is a calling to think beyond that .
jesus wa a rebel in a way .
and he he invited u to always seek the truth .
and thats the invitation to seek the truth .
is it is it to say that an animal that is expecting their offspring is expecting whatever puppy for example in the case of a dog but a woman a woman that who pregnant is expecting a clump of cell .
why are we with the animal world perhaps but not the human ?
these are the deep question that are not that deep that are basic and that we have to ask ourselves .
and in africa i heard that the word abortion doesnt exist for example there no translation for the word abortion because it is unfathomable unthinkable that there no word to say it .
why would a mother seek to of course there are certain situation but not a a society a a whole .
and i think that i think that also we have to think about in this education that we are speaking of we have to think about prevention .
what do you think about prevention ?
thats a thats a very good question .
and and now i am speaking not only to young lady but to woman in childbearing years. . prevention .
is there anything that can prevent ?
are there any condom for the heart ?
there are no condom for the heart .
first and foremost i am to these woman that are talking about prevention when god say to wait for marriage he knew what he wa saying because the majority of the men that their girlfriend or whatever have a nonplanned pregnancy they are wanting to run away .
thats the bottom line .
and and prevention is education .
when you look at this young man that you are in love with and crazy about do you think that thats the one that you want to father your child ?
because the bottom line is that thats the bottom line .
one and one is two .
and then a man and a woman get together and they have an intimacy and i am sorry but not whatever birth control you want to pull out of your hat .
it is not a hundred percent effective .
but first and foremost the heart whats going to happen to your heart ?
it get trampled on .
it get and then it becomes easier for another partner and another partner and another partner .
and that is when we have to come to the truth of saying is this what god want for me ?
did god create me for this ?
thats when we have to choose .
thats when we have to choose .
thats when we have to choose .
did god create me for this relationship ?
is this the man thats going to take me to the altar to be his wife and the mother of his child ?
this is what we need to think about because how many time in a night of whatever woman get pregnant even if it is the first time .
what i am trying to say is that prevention i do not know .
i think that the only prevention is wait for for god to show you the man thats going to be your husband the woman that is going to be your wife .
thats prevention and his word is not light and i know that people say everyone is doing it .
ive got news for you .
not everyone is doing it .
there are woman that are saving themselves and there are men that are waiting for that woman that god ha for them .
and there an order of thing ?
and it is being logical and strategic even .
again it is not religion .
it is being strategic .
would i be undergoing surgery and hurting myself hurting someone else a baby and whatever community or having it ?
would i be ?
then this is how i am going to act .
it is one thing lead to the next .
it is not rocket science but in today world one feel we are stepping on egg and we have to be politically correct but it is common sense .
but we have to speak truth .
we have to speak the truth and it is common sense .
because if it is the law of cease or the law of god a for me and my house we are going to serve god and speaking truth ?
we are not condemning anyone .
we are speaking truth .
speak the truth .
educate yourself .
whatever happens well deal with it but let speak with truth .
and tell u about the gala .
youve had a gala recently .
i wa fortunate to have been able to go to attend .
and i will also share this with our audience .
i wa surprised .
i couldnt believe i wa among hundred of people that were there again in a society that you feel against the grain or you feel you have to stay quiet .
and these there were politician .
there were mi future mi universe there .
there were common people myself .
there were all sort of people giving face and showing up for something that is politically incorrect .
and a a you all know a a nonprofit it is very difficult to raise fund especially for a cause that is not very popular ?
because people think that thats her problem .
or i am prochoice or whatever the case may be it is very difficult to raise fund for such an organization .
however because god wa the one that opened these door .
we started in two thousand and seven .
and when we opened our first clinic and now we have five clinic five .
we survived the economic meltdown of two thousand and eight two thousand and nine .
we survived covid by his grace and mercy .
i always say his divine mercy ha brought u to this point .
and opening the last clinic in not the last because we only got know how many he going to open in the future .
but opening the homestead location it wa such a challenge because it had been in our heart for long .
and then all of these happened we had four clinic at that time .
and then the homestead location i knew about the sexual traffic .
and to be able to be there now and be a part of a community that is being helped finally .
and we are teaching these woman how valuable their heart is and how valuable they are and to u . and thats what we do at all of our clinic .
but there wa such a deep need in this party in all the one we have but this location there wa nothing from the kendall location to the homestead location .
it wa a big drive and there wa nothing there .
that help u serve the key a . now we are from the key to broward pretty much helping woman in all the south florida .
we have the one in hialeah .
that wa the first one that used to be an abortion business by the way in the early 80 . then we had the north we have the north miami clinic which serf a beautiful community .
then we have the kendall location which is next to a college .
all of them are very close to high school and college .
a the abortionist open near high school and college .
then we have we opened the one in little havana that wa an abortion business for over twenty eight year .
and they close the abortion .
thats the one you went to .
and they closed and we opened .
and now these two clinic that were a previous abortion business are lifesaving clinic .
clinic that are transforming the life of woman and saving the life of baby .
then the one in homestead which opened a year and a half ago .
and i get this joy in my heart .
the joy of the lord in my heart because to know that this can only be by his grace and his divine mercy .
because this is supernatural that we have been able to do this during these difficult time .
our fundraiser is that big event which is the gala .
and a you saw it wa a very beautiful taste .
it wa very with humble mean if you will .
and the people that sponsored it that we could have it .
but you saw how beautiful the beautiful venue .
it wa all precious .
but what make for u a successful gala wa god glorified in that process .
you are saying the gala wa gifted in a way to the heartbeat of man ?
it is not that it is gifted by people by u selling the dinner people sponsoring .
it is not cheap or inexpensive to have a high quality gala god deserves ?
he deserves the best .
when we bring these woman you saw there were three woman that were previous patient of heartbeat of miami that were there with their baby .
one of them wa sitting at my table .
it wa a miss cuba .
the audience no cuba hasnt had a miss universe in about fifty something year .
and now it is happening .
and one of the miss cuba went to the clinic .
do you want to tell u about that ?
her testimony is public .
and she wa planning on having an abortion .
she came to have an abortion .
and it wa beautiful because in one of our gala she and her and her husband testified and we were able to help her see the beautiful life that she wa carrying .
and you met that baby .
yes i had him in my lap and she went and what wa amazing is that it is love ha a expansive power ?
it is contagious .
she wa she went to heartbeat of miami .
lovingly they explained what her option were how they were going to help her .
and she ended up having her baby and it is her life .
it is her life and her husband life .
he adores that baby .
it is a beautiful family .
she adores the baby .
she brought the baby to the gala very behaved .
and she brought all of the other her friend her comiss cuba that are candidate to be miss universe .
and how transformative is that ?
because it is a form of education because now all of those girl all of those woman that attend many of these event that usually prolife or respect life is not spoken of .
and somehow they are ambassador to the happiness that life and the family bring .
and thats what this young lady did .
she in other word she told them about her story .
they chose heartbeat of miami to help heartbeat of miami .
and it wa amazing the way that these girl said i had no idea .
i thought that maybe an unplanned pregnancy would break my life forever and meeting her and meeting that baby .
we understand now and knowing what you do .
i think that education is all you said .
and we would to touch on the topic of something very important .
very important .
i would to discus that if we can .
yes of course the amendment four .
can you tell u whats happening ?
what is it that they propose ?
yes amendment four it is this same thing is happening in other state a . sadly in the state that ha passed the worst ha happened .
and i am going to be truly transparent .
please do not be deceived .
this the way that it is reading written it is deceitful .
and they are making you believe that it is something good for woman .
amendment four will be horrible .
horrible for our life .
horrible for woman .
this is not helping woman .
amendment four and i pray and please help me pray and fast that it doe not pas .
it will be abortion until the moment of birth .
if a health professional which is not identified a health professional can be a nutritionist a coach a mental a health whatever the case may be not necessarily a physician an md say you can have an abortion .
you should have an abortion .
whatever the case that woman can have an abortion up to birth .
talking about parent consent parent that are listening to me now your child thirteen fourteen year old can go and have an abortion and you will be notified but you do not have to give a consent .
this would be horrific for our for our life for our community for our community .
and to me the way that it ha been written is deceitful .
and commercial there a lot of money from the opposition that is being spent on this in favor of amendment four .
voting yes for amendment four will end the life of thousand and thousand of innocent baby .
and also who ha the authority to end the life of this child at the moment of birth when there are parent that are praying to be able to adopt a child ?
please please vote no on amendment four .
call your your family call your friend and explain to them the danger of this amendment passing .
i encourage you to please pray a lot because let me tell you life a we know it it will not be anymore .
no and also what what could possibly happen after this ?
you are taking away your right a a parent to your child of your child .
i think mother teresa said mother mother teresa of calcutta if we can do this to human life whats there what what is left for u to do ?
it is the most sacred thing .
we are treating it a if it were disposable .
we are tearing family apart .
yes if you not only if you respect life if you care about life if you care about your faith if you care about truth but also if you care about the right of parent .
and this show is about our we always pray to our lady of guadalupe .
she is the patroness of the unborn .
always pray to her for guidance and we defend family .
family and we will speak about this a the show go on but in her eye the latest discovery is that in the iris of our lady of guadalupes eye is a family and in the center of that family is a woman .
what we are talking about here today is woman in the center of society family a the basis of society a a nucleus a an important nucleus who going to be there in your best and worst time usually your family .
it is a if once again this hidden agenda that i would love for you to maybe you have some word on that but it is a if we are family being attacked constantly and by attacking the woman family is being attacked .
the hidden agenda is taking away the right of parent and then of course once the right of parent will be taken away then what ?
whats going to happen ?
who going to guide these child ?
the other thing is taking away the right of the father not eliminating the men and putting them to the side with nothing .
and now we come to the mother destroying the woman destroying her heart piercing her heart with the death of her child .
i am telling you that this agenda is horrific is to end life a we know it .
life a we know it i agree .
thank you much marta for this .
please keep this in mind when you hear of amendment four tell your friend speak to family member do not be afraid to speak about these clinic that help .
do not be afraid to speak up .
i think we all have to be a little more braced .
we have an example of bravery here marta .
yes if you have a clinic thats awesome but partner with a clinic near you that you can help out .
be the help that she need .
maybe compromise i will help you in this material way shape or form or ill be there for you ill call you every day .
there many way we are called to do we are called to spread the gospel and spread which is the word of love .
and we all have it is not let wash our hand i do not have a clinic i do not know of anyone by speaking up by doing the small thing we can reach a large audience .
this is a small show we have a big big big soul here with u . and who know who it is going to reach .
and i encourage everyone who is watching this show please go on to heartbeatofmiami.org go onto their instagram account follow them spread the word .
and also you can call u anytime and let u know of your comment .
you can call this channel you can call mariavision and request for the phone number request for help .
we are always here for you too .
any last word that you would to say ?
if there a young lady out there or a mom that found out that her daughter pregnant or if you are pregnant and you do not know what to do please think of this crisis is past .
crisis is our temporary but life and death is eternal .
and consider seeking help the help .
thats someone thats going to tell you all about abortion is nothing thats not true .
seek the help .
if you are a young lady trust your mom trust a friend that can give you the guidance .
most of all trust god .
he ha a perfect plan for you and a perfect plan for that baby .
we are here for you .
thank you very much matta .
thank you for having me .
thank all of you for watching the show and i hope to see you next week .
thank you .
welcome to art2heart the podcast where we explore the intricacy of life canvas how to express redefine and embrace our journey through art and conversation .
i am your host reena and today we are diving deep into the transmissive power of starting over .
whether you are facing a career change moving to a new city or seeking a fresh chapter in your life this episode will help you paint a new picture of whats possible .
starting over is not about change it is about renewal creativity and courage .
let create something beautiful together in today canvas .
i saw this illustration in penetras and i thought this relates much to what we are currently in our life .
let start by acknowledging something important .
change can be uncomfortable .
it is easy to feel stuck you are on a treadmill going nowhere but the truth is sometimes change is exactly what we need to grow .
you should come out of your comfort zone .
you should be out there in rain in sun to seek what you are built for .
imagine standing at a crossroad where every path is unfamiliar .
the fear of the unknown can be paralyzing but it is also where opportunity lie .
one of the thing i learned from my life is i wa twenty eight once and now i am standing at thirty one and during my peak of my youtube career i stopped posting entirely and took a big break .
i never thought that it would take me two long year to come back to start doing what i had enjoyed but at the same time taking care of your health emotion or whatever is happening is very much a priority .
of course you may be a part of working culture which is not helpful in following your hobby or in following your dream but at the same time build is something which is daunting every single month every single day of your life .
to focus on what is at the current situation we lost ourselves into figuring out what do we want to do but at the same time doing something which is not in your favor doe not mean that you are not doing what you want to do .
it is something that you are unstoppable and it is there built in you somewhere that you can become the person you want to and all you have to do is wake up one day and decide no i will start it from today .
in your scenario you will definitely be struggling to even think of what you want to do but it is a moment of a second in your brain where you say no i am capable enough to do it and i will do it today not tomorrow .
consider these three powerful mindset shift .
first from fear to curiosity .
replace what if i fail with what can i learn .
this simple change open the door to exploration .
one thing i did in last december is take up a new design course by google and coursera .
it is understanding what the user need from you .
thats what i learned in ux design .
before that i have no idea whats happening .
i would build but do i know what is something which i should look forward to .
thats when after doing the course of the certification of ux design i understand it is an empathy .
it is a brainstorming .
it is an idea which make people to stay longer in your website and take that call to action button .
something you learn without even realizing .
it is been over eight month nine month since i started implementing this and i still do not have a particular portfolio on that course .
despite i should have built two or more website or two or more design i have not done because i am still in the process of learning but doe not stop me from not learning something .
the point from fear to curiosity rather than feeling yourself you can stumble upon open that page take up the course and start learning without even thinking further .
number two is from isolation to connection .
seek out community whether online or in person .
youll find others who are also on the journey of reinvention .
i can relate to this from the above example about ux design .
it is more a notion but also it is much more simpler and much more easier and i happen to attend there .
there have been hour where he talked about how you can make few change in your portfolio and you will end up getting job .
last and number three from perfection to progress .
notice the idea it is to be imperfect every step forward no matter how small is progress .
now let get practical here are ten actionable step to help you start over with confidence .
number one reflect and define your goal .
take time to understand what you truly want journal about your passion and dream .
journaling is something which is such a game changer for anybody who ha been doing it is you pinning down your feeling and taking away all those negative thought out of your brain and focusing on the thing you want to focus .
number two create a plan .
break down your goal into manageable step having a roadmap can make the journey le overwhelming .
i said journaling is a key point and everyone should have a dirty notebook or some of the scribble notebook but you can write whatever you are going through and then you will get all the gut and then you will be focusing on the good .
number three build a support system .
surround yourself with people who uplift and inspire you do not be afraid to lean on them when time get tough .
number four celebrate small domain .
every little achievement count acknowledging your progress no matter how many are .
i am someone who always think of celebrating too long is absolutely madness and being sad too long is also absolutely madness .
celebrating those if you are going to celebrate for ten minute you have to feel sorrow for ten minute but our brain doe not work further .
we celebrate for ten minute and we keep on thinking of the thing we have not achieved for ten hour and ten day .
if you are someone who do not see your progress write it down at the beginning of the month and see at the end of the month how far you have come you will see a difference in it and you will be happy for what you have done .
you should not do to seek approval from other but rather from yourself because you are your own best critic out there .
number five stay open to new opportunity .
life is unpredictable embrace the unexpected twist and turn .
if you have lost your job no worry you can upskill yourself go to a better job and where you feel feel accomplished for what you have done .
number six practice selfcompassion .
be kind to yourself during this transition .
acknowledge your feeling and allow yourself to grieve what you are leaving behind .
number seven learn continuously .
this is my favorite bit .
invest in yourself through course book or workshop .
knowledge can empower you to make informed decision in your new journey .
number eight visualize your future .
in time imagining what your ideal life will look .
visualization can clarify your goal and motivate you to take action .
we all do this mistake .
focus on your own journey rather than comparing yourself to others .
everyones path is unique and thats what make it special .
there are few in our class or in our college who have achieved more than what we are doing today .
stop comparing because they have already put that number of effort .
for example if you took at ali abdal he started working from the age of fourteen .
now he thirty and i can not compare to him saying hey i am elder than ali and i have not done what i have done but looking at his work experience he ha been working for pretty good of a two decade close by .
what if i look at my own and not even work for five year down the road .
whatever you put in your hard work thats where it will .
number ten stay flexible .
be willing to adapt your plan a you learn and grow .
flexibility can lead to new opportunity you had not considered .
flexibility doe not mean you are not going to become the person you have trimmed off but it is becoming the best version of yourself which you have not trimmed off because you are constantly building up yourself .
never starting over is not about erasing the past it is about building a future that aligns with who you are now .
embrace the journey trust the process and do not be afraid to redefine what success look for you .
thank you for joining on today episode of odd to heart podcast if you enjoyed this episode please subscribe and leave a comment and remember every day is a new opportunity to start over until next time keep dreaming big and stepping boldly into your future .
see you all in the next podcast which will be on sunday till then have a great life start over do not be scared you have that confidence which you are seeking for thank you very much and bye bye .
hello and welcome to colin bradley artcast i am stephen bradley .
very thank you .
it wa lovely seeing you and the family yesterday .
yeah it wa a lovely day did not we ?
it wa very very nice .
weather wa kind to u and it wa ... canterbury wa bustling wasnt it ?
expected christmas but it wasnt quite christmasy enough for me but i spoke to this a bit early yet .
yeah halloween first .
yes thats .
yes but your two little one were absolutely charming .
they charmed the pant office .
they were on good form yesterday on good form .
still on the way out of having this bug thats gone round .
we are both but barnabys still on his way out of that .
it is stuck around a little bit .
it is gone round u multiple time .
but we are ... yeah we are doing .
tired obviously .
tired for the foreseeable .
it is tricky is not it ?
this thing steve it drain you .
especially when youve got the four of you all suffering .
it is nice though when it subsides and you are back to normal .
life get back to a it wa and especially with the two little one .
there lovely moment in every day where even though it is one of them or both of them are not there still lovely moment in the day that make you laugh and make you smile .
this week weve got a couple of thing to talk about .
weve got the lion to show and you finish that .
well talk about that .
and then we also had a request on our facebook group which i thought would be interesting to get your advice and get your advice live to see what you think .
let start there .
ange on facebook on our private facebook group and you can join that .
everyone can join that .
youve taken one of your class .
all youve got to do is go to colin bradley school of art student on facebook and request to join .
and then one of the one of the team will approve your request .
but i am going to flash up anges picture on screen because ange asks your advice and anyone el advice in the group about background for these cat .
ange say i have put the smaller cat closer to the bigger cat and i have included the treat ball .
i can not make my mind up whether to leave it a is on the sand past the mat and include the shadow .
what doe anyone think ?
and you dad shes a bit stumped on this one .
it is a very tricky one .
i would have tended to do each cat separately .
thats what i would have done because when you put two cat together and never quite or two animal together come to that it never quite work a you want it .
one and the other one not .
what i did with this particular picture you will not be able to see the original because ive cut that down a bit .
it wa a larger photograph .
what i did is i chopped it to what there a being a reasonable picture .
what i would probably have done if it wa possible i would be able to do it is to move the cat on the the one above the ball over slightly nearer to the cat not nearer to the camera on the same distance move it slightly .
there a little le and then you can make it a portrait rather than that .
i think thats what ang is done .
yeah she need to do it more .
she need to push it over a bit more in the same a i say do not bring it any nearer because it will look silly .
thats what i would do .
you can do everybodys got the choice to do what they want to do .
i probably would keep the ball in there especially where it is .
id probably keep that .
now what about the background ?
i wouldnt do that background at all .
i would do probably it depends if you fancy doing that carpet .
yeah do the carpet .
but i think i would probably make it that ready tone .
there a ready tone in the carpet is not there ?
and i did make it that tone all over .
and i would probably use the angle .
the angle of that cabinet behind the way it cut across at an angle .
id keep that angle and then i would perhaps put a skirting board in something that and then make it a plain background .
and that background could be that i do not know what it is on the very hand side youve got .
thats a speaker i think .
is it i quite that colour not the surround the colour .
if you made it that colour and then maybe a white or a creamy skirting board .
it is got a grey colour this grey colour in the middle .
if you look at it it go very with the animal tone wise .
i wouldnt make it any darker than that id make it that colour .
i am saying what i would do steve but that would be my suggestion .
it is a tricky one .
it is a complicated picture to figure out because there much going on in that background that you are it is the thing to change it .
there is a much much much more complicated one .
do you want me to tell you what it would be if it wa me ?
what i would do is move the big cat and put it where the other cat is and the other cat where the big cat wa in other word swap them over .
but i wouldnt do that id leave the big cat a it is and the small cat id turn it and twist it around .
you can do that on the computer you can twist it around .
that small cat is looking this way and the other one go there .
but thats very complicated and i wouldnt suggest ... who is it ?
i wouldnt suggest ang doe that .
thats much too complicated .
but i could do it .
but thats entirely up to her .
i would probably advise her to stay a it is .
stay a it wa but id move it .
but id move that cat slightly closer but not closer nearer to the cat but at the same distance away .
i hope that help .
yeah interesting .
would you include the shadow that are at the bottom ?
youve got to because of the lighting of the cat .
the cat is lit from almost above there .
if you elongated the shadow it would look silly .
if you left it out it would look even worse .
youve got to put them in .
thats good advice .
i hope thats helpful ang and obviously others that are watching .
it is always interesting to see your advice on a picture and what you would do .
and i know thats helpful for others too .
let show a couple of stage .
we were talking about the lion last week and this is the stage that we showed last week .
this is the latest that we had .
i thought id remind everyone where you were at .
obviously you are putting that background in a a you go along which is a new thing for you because you used to do what you do background last .
you can see why i did that can not you ?
because youve got a brilliant contrast and you understand that contrast .
thats the reason i did it .
that wa the colour the original colour .
i havent turned much about without that .
thats more or le exactly .
i may have played with the colour a little bit in term of using the one hundred and seventy five particularly .
i think i used oneseven to start with there which is in the animal and one hundred and seventy five which is in the animal .
the only two colour i used on that background all the way north i did put a grey on .
i think i put a grey on first sorry about that .
you can see that grey .
if you look on the lefthand side on the edge of the dark background shadow there you can see a bit of grey .
youve got a grey pastoral paper i do not know if you use a dark grey pastoral paper .
you can see a little bit of that grey .
and of course the question would be why do you want that on ?
what do you want that for ?
you do not have to have that .
i do to have something to work my dark colour into and that neutral grey which is two hundred and seventy three thats the colour i wa using .
it give it a much richer look .
those are the colour that i used .
but it is not an easy one this .
and thats the reason i did it a youve seen it there .
and i think the next one where we show it is even more bitty but i can explain that away i think when we come to watch .
you could see this jump a fair bit in term of progression there .
all of that background is in .
there wa silly doing one little bit in the end .
i had to put the i did not have to put it but i decided to put the dead tree in .
and the reason is again that link up with the animal and the background .
but when i did it subsequently when the last picture ive got that wa a bit light .
it wa brighter than that on the original photograph i pulled it down a little bit but i still felt that that wa a bit bright the top part of that wa a bit bright .
but you can see here and the reason i put this in you can see the ivory on the animal .
it is not going to end up that but you have to put those colour in .
there two or three colour there .
i can not remember them all .
sorry i know it wasnt long ago i did it but i can not remember them now but i know that i used the ivory and i used the grey .
the grey i wa using there wa the two hundred and seventy which is an earth grey .
and then i used another one a creamy colour i can not remember it wa .
i think it wa a one hundred and two i think .
anyway the idea wa to try to do exactly the same reason why i did the background and talking about putting a base colour in .
i had to put that base colour in and you can see if you look at the pour on the left that wa the same colour a that .
you can see that while ive done this ive used a bit of ochre one hundred and eighty seven i think i wa using there a a the two hundred and seventy three .
but you can see it beginning to come now .
is that finished on the left hand side ?
is that pour finished ?
yes to all intent and purpose .
i did work a little bit more on it but you could say that it is finished .
it look good it look finished .
and you can see that the build up of that main or the chest a and how you get it .
is it the next stage ?
let me try and show you it .
do not move it yet .
id to point out to you is that forward pour ?
you are looking at that first we are looking at that first .
i wa going to show the difference between doe it go from this and then you immediately make it that .
doe that look thats a lot of work to get it from that to that ?
not a much a you think .
no not a much a you think .
because i am using two dark colour there remember .
i am using the one hundred and seven and one hundred and seventy five .
and then there also a little grey that i put on top of it .
the light grey is added afterwards .
no it is not a hard a you think .
people will see that .
it is not easy to put it that way .
you were going to talk about the front pour .
yeah i am looking at that .
when the picture in a minute or two i hope that youll be amazed at the way that pour look a though it is resting over the tree .
detail that weve got there .
but if you look at it that it start off and then you lose it .
yeah it curl around it .
now that is critical to this .
if i hadnt done that it wouldnt have looked .
but i wa particularly pleased with this the way this came up .
yeah it is this bit here is not it ?
thats it .
it is the fact that it is hidden there .
that is the key to making it look .
it wasnt until afterwards steve that i realised that when i saw it at the end because i wa working on it and working on it and working on it going back and forth .
but it is that that i think that i got the most surprised pleasure out of .
because when i saw it when you look at it there it wa a bit in a couple of few little dark spot for the claw and a bit of white background .
but when that on the next shot .
let show the finished picture .
see what ? .
i see you can imagine you are flopping your arm down .
little thing that give me a lot of pleasure .
much to mention .
this skin these skin ripple fold .
no it is hard to believe is not it ?
it is hard to believe that that wa the colour .
remember that bright yellow colour ?
but once you put those colour ive told you about them .
there quite a lot of colour on that .
and also this section down here .
how do you make that happen ?
i can not explain it to you .
it is you there is very very little colour in there .
youve got i use a bit of white a bit of light grey the medium grey and the one hundred and seventy five .
but is not very much more than that .
i put a little bit of pink in and touch a brown in but not to speak of .
but that if i hadnt put that in that poor look doth wouldnt it ?
it would have silly flopped in the front .
you have to put you have to put the detail in .
i love the lion .
i think he look amazing .
but this is interesting .
the tree this section down here the lion is obviously the feature of the picture .
but man i want to see how you do all of these section .
because i do not i do not think ive seen you do something particularly at this level of detail and intricacy to get such a variety .
ive seen you do tree trunk and stuff but there many interesting part to this this tree that i think is fascinating .
the secret is the color of the paper .
you can see the color of the paper on the outside edge the dark green testament .
if i hadnt had that it wouldnt have worked a . id have had to put lot of lot more color on lot of base color .
but if you look at that gray especially the area on the lefthand side there you can see that if you put a little bit of gray on thats some two seven three eye i think then .
two seven three a little bit of one seven five .
youve got that color .
it is not a easy a that of course but thats all i did .
and then put a little bit of light gray and white of course touch white in there .
you do not put white too much underneath .
you put the you add the white a you are going along .
unlike the line where i said youve got to put a base color you do not have to with this. . you are using the color of the paper a your foundation .
and you get it work a if i use any other color paper .
such a good picture .
how would you rate this in term of difficulty ?
you said it wa a hard one earlier .
i would say it wa very hard steve .
very hard .
people that tackle this are going to want a middle at the end of the day .
there many thing that can go wrong .
even in the simplicity of that tree trunk or tree dead tree i call it the simplicity of that is hard .
you wouldnt think it .
ive only four color .
five if you include a little bit of white going back in .
but it is the way you hold the pencil .
it is the way you drag the pencil .
it is the way you stop .
once you achieve the effect thats it .
the only thing i did do remember i did say that i darkened that tree on the top .
it wa quite bright on the original photograph .
but i wanted it to darken .
but i wanted it to be faithful to the original photographic reference .
and of course that area which i remember when we were talking about it it wa a week before last wa it ?
and i said that tail i couldnt understand what that wa at the back .
the tail and that area to the hand side .
it wa the original picture show it .
i havent got that here with me at the moment .
but that tail and i said to what i am going to do is extend the tree trunk that we lose that bit of tail .
you can still see a bit of it sticking out there but not very much of it .
but it wa confusing .
and those are the little thing that you can do when you do something this .
it doesnt alter the picture very much and it is fairly easy to do a . fantastic .
and it feel an audiovisual picture that you filmed that a a class .
that will be up on the website in the future people can learn to draw this one .
i am working on another picture at the moment the white tiger i think you did at the beginning of the year .
that one is about halfway through editing that one .
it shouldnt be long before that one come out another line .
but yeah great job on that dad .
i think it is fantastic .
have you thought about another picture ?
you thought about what you might do next ?
ive got four lined up .
i could change my mind on some of them but there two dog and two cat .
ive evened it off .
all the cat lover were very pleased .
two cat and all the dog lover are because there two dog .
ive evened it up a bit .
and then ive got a grey wolf which came in only this week .
i saw it on facebook .
i belong to a group of free reference photograph .
they allow you to do it .
lot of people take the photograph .
and ive used quite a few of them .
that lion wa one of them .
but this grey wolf wa beautiful .
it wa beautiful .
i love wolf anyway .
and ive done a few of them now but i thought maybe another one .
i havent earmuffed him for sure yet but ive got him standing in the wing .
the dog that i am using is a man .
i think ive got the other dog .
i might be able to give you a brief .
there you go .
thats beautiful .
look at that .
i love that .
you can see how you can not resist some of these .
quite a lot of work in that background .
again similar to the cat we were talking about ive got to alter it and change it .
and thatll be interesting .
well talk about that next time .
how ive got in my mind .
thats one that i will do the background afterwards .
i am using the white pastime paper for that .
can not you use black or grey ?
the problem here is you never get the white white enough .
you will not get that contrast .
by using the light grey pastime i can emphasise the white but still put the dark colour in .
we are going to work out hopefully .
thats the next one .
thats on the chock .
ill check in with you and see how you are doing with that picture or a different one you decide next week .
maybe well get some more question that have come in a . if you do post something on facebook that youd for u to talk about then tag either one of u in it we can see it .
we pick it up and mention that youd u to discus it .
perhaps we can talk about it on the show .
you can always drop u an email or comment on this video with your question .
we can talk about them in the show .
otherwise well continue to talk about your artwork dad and the various piece that youve done .
well leave it there for this week .
thank you everyone much for watching and for listening .
